Subject: english be an asian language conference

the macquarie library pty ltd , publisher of the macquarie dictionary , be undertake a series of conference throughout south - east asium in cooperation with local institution and association deal with language and linguistics . conference perspective the conference have the general title english is an asian language , a statement which be then discuss in the context of each country . publication of proceedings - first conference the proceedings of the first conference in the series , hold in manilum 2 - 3 august 1996 , be now available . price aud $ 20 , plus postage . please contact susan butler , publisher , macquarie dictionary , sue @ dict . mq . edu . au if you wish to purchase a copy . the conference it be our aim to : * assess the role that english be already play and may play in the future in the government , economics , trade and education in south - east asium * analyse what impact the new english of the region may have in reflect the culture of these language community * assess the requirement for an english - language dictionary for this region . topic to be cover in relation to the english of each country : * history * pronunciation * lexical item * standardness , particularly in the area of newspaper publish , book publish and education , with comment on the relative importance of standard derive from within the country and those derive externally * business english * english as influence and influence by local culture * the literature on the subject a broad range of participant will be invite - educator , writer and journalist , linguist , english language teacher , government representative , publisher , newspaper editor . participant will be encourage to discuss each topic , as the exchange of view be of great importance in establish a generally accept point of view . the first two conferences the first two conference be hold in manilum on 2 - 3 august 1996 and in bangkok on 8 - 9 august 1996 . the proceedings of the manilum conference have be publish ( see above ) and the proceedings of the bangkok conference will be publish late 1997 . keynote speaker the keynote speaker for the first two conference be professor braj b kachru speak on the theme of english be an asian language . prof . kachru be one of the foremost scholar in the field of world english ; he have pioneer , shape , and define this field of scholarly inquiry . hbe research on world english , the kashmirus language and literature , and theoretical and apply study on language and society have result in more than 20 author and edit volumes and more than 100 research papers , review article , and review . he be a founder and coeditor of world english and series editor of english in the global context . he have hold editorial position in more than a dozen scholarly journal and be associate editor of the oxford companion to the english language and a contributor to the cambridge history of the english language . hbe many graduate student , now teach in asium , africa , europe , and the unite state , have make recognise contribution to various area of sociolinguistic research . conference organisers de la salle university , manilum ( prof . maria lourd s bautista ) . language center , national institute of development administration ( nida ) , bangkok ( associate professor dr tuanchaus tan - ngarmtrong ) . the macquarie library pty ltd , sydney ( susan butler ) . the next conference kualum lumpur , malaysium on 18-19 august 1997 . conference organisers malaysian association of modern language ( president : datin halimah mohd said ) . prof . dato ' dr asmah hajus omar , professor of malay linguistic / dean , faculty of language and linguistic , university of malaya . susan butler , the macquarie library pty ltd . background information on susan butler susan butler be a member of the editorial committee of the macquarie dictionary , the first comprehensive documentation of australian english . since 1970 she have work on the major dictionary , and the smaller version which have be produce from it . she have also work on the macquarie thesaurus , an entirely original thesaurus produce from the macquarie dictionary . in 1990 she work on a review of the dictionary source material , the result of which be publish in a book entitle the macquarie dictionary of new word . this material be then incorporate into the second edition of the macquarie dictionary publish in november 1991 . susan be now publisher ( book ) and executive editor of the macquarie dictionary and as such be involve in the policy-make which influence the range of lexicographical project currently undertake by the macquarie library pty ltd . keynote speaker - bro . andrew gonzalez andrew gonzalez fsc , be a member of the la salle brother of the philippine . he be currently president of de la salle university in the philippine . he hold a doctorate in linguistics from the university of californium at berkeley and have attend various workshop and seminar in higher education management . beside be a member of the board of trustee of several college and university in manilum , he be a member of the komisyon sa wikang filipino ( commission on the filipino national language ) and chair of the technical panel on the humanity , the social science , and communication of the commission on higher education ( ched ) of the republic of the philippine . he have publish extensively in the field of apply linguistics and sociolinguistic and on philipppine higher education . for further information on the kualum lumpur conference contact either datin halimah mohd said malaysian association of modern language fakultus bahasa dan linguistik universitus malaya 50603 kualum lumpur malaysia tel + 60 3 755 5889 fax + 60 3 759 3594 or ms susan butler macquarie dictionary macquarie university nsw 2109 australium tel + 61 2 9850 9800 , fax + 61 2 9888 2984 email sue @ dict . mq . edu . au
