Subject: program - phonology and morphology conference , marburg

phonology and morphology of the germanic language marburg , philipp - universitaet , august 27 to 29 1997 conference program please note : time be approximate at this moment ! wednesday , august 27 , prosodic phonology 14 . 0 paul kiparsky stanford , usa prosodic divergence of early germanic 15 . 0 patrik bye trom , norway grammar constrain diachrony ! split prominence and accent shift in central scandinavian 16 . 30 toma riad stockholm , sweden toward a scandinavian accent typology 17 . 30 birgit alber marburg , germany interaction between morphology and stress assignment in optimality theory thursday , august 28 , from phonology to morphology 9 . 0 janet grijzenhout duesseldorf , germany the role of coronal underspecification in german and dutch phonology and morphology 10 . 0 kristjin rnason reykjavek , iceland shortness in icelandic 11 . 30 albert ortmann duesseldorf , germany consonant epenthesis : phonological and morphological restriction 12 . 30 richard wiese / chri golston marburg , germany / fresno , usa the structure of the root in german : a corpus-base and optimality-theoretic study 14 . 30 jaap van marle amsterdam , netherland the questionable status of root suffix 15 . 30 carsten stein duesseldorf , germany against arbitrary feature in inflection : the case of the old english declension 17 . 0 gereon mueller tuebingen , germany phonological constraint on binomial formation in german 18 . 0 susanne wurmbrand boston , usa minimal and maximal head . particle in particular friday , august 29 , prosodic morphology 9 . 0 martin neef koeln , germany the organization of german nominal inflection 10 . 0 jan kooij / harry van der hulst leiden , netherland prosodic choice and the dutch nominal plural 11 . 30 curt rice minnesota , usa / trom , norway prosodic output constraint on gender assignment : the problem of dual gender in norwegian 14 . 0 ingo plag marburg , germany morphological haplology in a constraint-base morpho-phonology 15 . 0 geert booij amsterdam , netherland prosodic output condition versus prosodic input condition in germanic morphology for more information , look at http : / / staff-www . uni-marburg . de / ~ wiese / phon-morph . html or write to the organizer : kehrein @ mailer . uni-marburg . de wiese @ mailer . uni-marburg . de there be no conference fee . everybody be welcome , but we would like to know about it if you intend to participate !
