Subject: telri 3rd european seminar - announcement

telri - tran - european language resource infrastructure third european seminar : " translation equivalence - theory and practice " montecatinus , tuscany , italy october 16-18 , 1997 - under the patronage of the european commission - * * first announcement * * ( apology for duplicate ) " there be no point in deny the concept of translation . the fact be translation be a necessity on economic and general human grounds . moreover , the fact of translation be a main challenge both to linguistics and to philosophy . " j . r . firth " linguistic analysis and translation " the concert action telri ( tran - european language resource infrastructure ) invite you to participate in the third european seminar translation equivalence - theory and practice , to be hold on october 16-18 , 1997 in the famous spa town of montecatinus ( between florence and lucca ) in italy . the seminar be organise by telri in conjunction with the tuscan word centre ( twc ) in pescium - vellano . the seminar will assess the achievement of exist translation software and try to propose new approach that could radically improve their performance . our experience so far suggest that we need a huge increase in linguistic knowledge before we can construct software that can deal successfully with natural language semantics , i . e . software that replicate the human faculty of understand text . the seminar will introduce a variety of approach that will help us to provide the translation knowledge necessary for a new generation of translation tool . it will present the finding of the telri project on the multilingual plato corpus and offer new idea for the exploitation of parallel text . it will demonstrate how the bridge dictionary can be use as a lexicon of translation equivalent . registration fee : dm 400 , - ( until august 31 ) , include participation in the seminar , open and close reception , banquet , and coffee break . ( for a limit number of participant from country with restrict currency convertibility , the registration fee may be negotiate . ) leat registration fee ( after august 31 ) : dm 500 , - social event fee for accompany person : dm 120 , - registration be possible vium fax , e-mail , and surface mail . on - line registration be also possible vium the seminar www page give below . for further information on the third european seminar and on the telri concert action in general , please refer to the follow url : http : / / www . ids-mannheim . de / telrus / tuscany97 . html or send an e-mail to : telrus @ ids-mannheim . de . coordinator dr . wolfgang teubert abt . lexik ( dept . of lexical study ) institut fuer deutsche sprache postfach 10 16 21 d-68016 mannheim , germany fax / phone : + 49 621 1581-415 e - mail : telrus @ ids-mannheim . de
