Subject: 2nd call for paper : dgfs meet 1998

call for papers as part of the annual meet of the german linguistic society ( deutsche gesellschaft fuer sprachwissenschaft ) , to be hold in halle ( saale ) , germany , march 4 - 6 1998 , there will be a workshop ( arbeitsgruppe ) on the follow topic : the role of functional category in language contact and change in current syntactic theory functional category play an important role in determine the structure of clause and noun phrase . while in ` regular ' language change the content of functional category seem to be relatively stable , in many language contact situation , e . g . creolization , code-switch , functional category be lose and , subsequently , reconstitute . a major issue hereby be on which grammatical knowledge speaker model the reconstitution of these element . some of the specific question to be adress in this session be : ( i ) which functional category be necessarily reconstitute , and which be not ? this relate to the issue of universality ( or ug - compatibility ) and markedness of functional category ; ( ius ) what type of functional category be reconstitute : those that contribute to mean ( lf - interpretable ) , or those that only convey grammatical information , or both ? ; ( iius ) which lexical category be use as a model for reconstitution and , consequently , be reinterpret as functional category ? ; ( iv ) from which language ( s ) in the contact situation be the ( lexical or grammatical ) element draw use for reconstitution of functional category ? paper will be relevant to this topic be invite . paper should take 30 minute , to be follow by 15 minute of discussion . a one-page abstract should be send ( preferably by e-mail ) to the organizer ( address below ) by september 1 , 1997 . dr . t . veenstra instituut voor algemene taalwetenschap universiteit van amsterdam spuistraat 210 nl-1012 vt amsterdam tel 0 . 31 . 20 . 525 . 3858 fax 0 . 31 . 20 . 525 . 3021 e-mail t . veenstra @ let . uva . nl
