Subject: cocosda-97 in rhode

cocosda ' 97 announcement and call for submissions cocosda , the coordinate committee on speech database and assessment , be found in 1991 , and have hold yearly workshop ever since . the 1997 cocosda workshop , on the theme " standard and tool for linguistic annotation of speech database , " will take place at the convention centre of the rodo palace hotel , in rhode , greece , on the two day follow the eurospeech meet : friday , september 26 and saturday , september 27 . it will be co-locate with the cost workshop on " speech technology in the public telephone network : where be we today ? " hold in the same facility on the same two day . overall registration be limit to 200 , 100 from each organization . cocosda aim to promote collaborative work and information exchange for resource and standard in spoken language engineer . it maintain work group on speech corpora and label , speech synthesis assessment , and speech recognition assessment . cocosda workshop include report on relevant activity around the world , and discussion of topic of mutual interest . further information about cocosda can be find at the url http : / / www . itl . atr . co . jp / cocosda / , and further information about cost ( european cooperation in the field of scientific and technical research ) can be find at http : / / www2 . cordi . lu / cost / src / intro . htm . submission on the theme of cocosda ' 97 , as well as other relevant subject , be invite . registration for cocosda ' 97 to register for cocosda97 , see http : / / www . ldc . upenn . edu / cocosda97 . cocosda ' 97 attendee be welcome to attend session of the cost workshop as well , though they will have to register separately for cost in order to get a copy of the proceedings . on friday afternoon , there will be a join cost / cocosda session on the topic of speech recognition . on friday morn and saturday afternoon , cocosda ' 97 will meet separately from cost . there will be both report of general interest and presentation on the workshop theme . on saturday morn , the three cocosda work group ( on speech corpora and label , speech synthesis assessment , and speech recognition assessment ) will meet separately , as arrange by their individual organizer . information for cocosda ' 97 presenters cocosda ' 97 be focus on standard and tool for linguistic annotation of speech database . if you would like to make a presentation on the workshop theme , or on another topic within cocosda 's area of interest , please register for the workshop and send an abstract of 500 word or less to cocosda97 @ ldc . upenn . edu . if possible , include a url for papers or project description . all good-faith submission will be accommodate , though some may have to be place in a poster session .
