Subject: call for abstract for the listserve

the 1998 conference of the texa linguistic society title : explore the boundary between phonetic & phonology the university of texa at austin march 13-15 , 1998 keynote speaker : abigail cohn , cornell university patricium keat , university of californium , lo angele janet pierrehumbert , northwestern university abstract be invite for 30 minute talk ( with 10 additional minute for discussion ) on any topic relate to the relationship between phonetics and phonology . potential topic include , but be not limit to : theoretical exploration of the interplay between phonetics and phonology encode phonetic naturalness in phonological theory or representation experimental datum ( acoustic or perceptual ) pertain to phonological pattern and / or sound change phonetic and phonological realization of specific pattern such as tone and intonation , coarticulation , metathesis , etc . match and mismatch between phonetic and phonological pattern * especially encourage * be abstract deal with the separation of phonetics and phonology abstract must be no more than one 8 1 / " 2 by 11 " page , single-space , and in at least 12 - point font ( 10 point for example ) , with one-inch margin on all side . one additional page with reference and diagram or tableau may be append if necessary . all submission must include the follow item : 10 anonymous copy of the abstract 1 3x5 " card with name , affiliation , address , phone number , email address and title of paper deadline for receipt of abstract be october 17 , 1997 . send abstract to : tls abstract committee calhoun 501 the university of texa at austin austin , tx 78712 abstract receive after the deadline will not be consider . fax submission will not be accept . instruction for email submission be available upon request . an individual may submit at most one single and one co-author paper . accept presenter will be notify by mid - december , 1997 . if presenter wish to have their papers include in the conference proceedings , they must submit a camera-ready copy by may 15 , 1998 . proceeding will be publish by the texa linguistic forum . a poster session that will accompany the conference be currently be organize . a call for poster abstract will be issue soon . preregistration for the conference be $ 15 . 0 ( us ) for student , $ 30 . 0 for nonstudent . for further information , contact tl @ ut . cc . utexa . edu or check out our web page at http : / / ut . cc . utexa . edu / ~ tl / tivolus major university of texa department of linguistic
