Subject: toc for linguist list

dear sir , prof . helen dry have offer that we may include announcement of our activity in linguist ( message of 24 april 97 ) . you will find the announcement of a workshop on report speech below . thank you in advance . manfr roncador announcement of a workshop at the ' 20th conference of the german linguistic society ( dgfs ) ' in halle on ' form and function of report speech ' coordinator : tom gueldemann and manfr von roncador linguistic study have increasingly demonstrate that in contrast to the traditional approach a clear-cut distinction between direct and indirect speech be for many language untenable . the existence of such intermediate form as semi-direct speech , so-cal style indirect libre ( free indirect discourse ) , and logophoric construction point rather to an analysis whereby the different form of report speech be assign a specific position on a continuum whose extreme pole be characterize by a minimal or maximal shift of the deictic centre ( cf . roncador 1988 ) . in the framework of such a theoretical approach , it be interest to investigate which different function the individual form of report speech may serve in discourse . another interest question concern the grammatical characteristic of quotative construction ( qc ) , i . e . linguistic expression use in language to signal report speech , and how these qcs be relate to the function of the different category of report speech lay out on the continuum mention just above . possible feature to be investigate in this respect be inter alium the internal structure of qcs , the obligatoriness of the individual propositional element in them ( such as reference to speaker and addressee ) , the particular strategy for express the locutionary aspect , and the nature of the semanto-syntactic relation between qc and the quote itself . the historical process that qcs or their element be subject to constitute another possible focus of attention . this be mean to include the discussion on grammaticalization process in this domain , which be already quite extensive but which have probably focus too much on the development of speech verb only . as analysis of report speech in single language be often still orient toward concept develop for european language , contribution on non - european language offer new insight on less-known aspect of this functional domain will be particularly welcome . this will serve to put these first attempt to typologize the phenomenon of report speech in its functional and formal aspect ( cf . roeck 1994 ) on a broader empirical basis . reference : roeck , m . de . 1994 . typology of speech report . in : engberg - pedersen et al . ( ed . ) , function and expression in functional grammar . berlin : mouton de gruyter , pp . 331-351 . roncador , m . von . 1988 . zwischen direkter und indirekter rede : nichtwoertliche direkte rede , erlebte rede , logophorische konstruktionen und verwandt . tuebingen : max niemeyer . prof . helen dry , dr . manfr von roncador afrikanistik i universitaet bayreuth d-95440 bayreuth tel . + 921 / 55 21 91 fax + 921 / 55 36 27
