Subject: chicago linguistic society

announce the 35th regional meet of the chicago linguistic society april 22-24 , 1999 university of chicago main session : we invite original , unpublish work on any topic of general linguistic interest . invite speaker : beth levin ( northwestern university ) paul smolensky ( john hopkin university ) panel : we invite original , unpublish work which address one of the panel topic below . language , identity , and the other thursday , april 22 language serve as a means to unite as well as to exclude group or individual . this panel will explore the linguistic mechanism by which this be accomplish in different speech community . invite speaker : robert greenberg ( university of north carolina , chapel hill ) michael silverstein ( university of chicago ) in conjunction with the university of chicago workshop on theory and datum in speech research : chus 99 new synthese : multus - disciplinary approach to basic unit of speech friday , april 23 this panel seek to synthesize finding from linguistics and other field which investigate linguistic behavior , to determine whether these can be use as evidence for a unify theory of basic unit of speech process . invite speaker : john ohalum ( university of californium , berkeley ) joseph perkell ( massachusett institute of technology ) theory and linguistic diversity saturday , april 24 approximately five thousand language be speak throughout the world today . this panel seek to explore the way in which linguistic theory attempt to account for such variety . invite speaker : mark baker ( rutger university ) joan bresnan ( stanford university ) r . m . w . dixon ( australian national university ) please submit ten copy of a one-page 500 word anonymous abstract for a twenty minute paper ( optionally one additional page for datum and / or reference may be append ) , along with a 3 by 5 card with : 1 your name 2 affiliation 3 address , phone number , and e-mail address 4 title of the paper 5 an indication for which panel or which particular subdivision of the main session ( eg : phonetics , phonology , syntax , semantics , historical linguistics , etc . ) the paper be intend . the abstract should be as specific as possible and it should clearly indicate the datum cover , outline the argument present , and include any broader implication of the work . an individual may present at most one single and one co-author paper . author must submit a camera-ready copy of the paper at the time of the conference in order to be consider for publication . only a selection of papers present at cls 35 will be publish . this year deadline for receipt of abstract be february 1 , 1999 . send abstract to : chicago linguistic society 1010 east 59th st . chicago , il 60637 773 . 702 . 8529 information on e-mail submission and additional guideline for abstract may be obtain by visit our website at http : / / humanities . uchicago . edu / humanities / cl / cl . html , by write to the above address , or by e-mail us at cl @ diderot . uchicago . edu .
