Subject: the written poem : semiotic convention from old to modern english

huisman , rosemary ( university of sydney ) ; the written poem : semiotic convention from old to modern english ; available from cassell ; hb . : 0 304 33999 7 ; us $ 75 . 0 / 45 . 0 this book define a focus of interest : contemporary poetry and its historical construction as a 's een object ' , and use current literary and social theory to facilitate its study . thus the book contain matter of relevance to practise poet , to those engage in literary study and to those with a sociolinguistic interest in the english language , especially in relation to technical and social change in language technology and literacy . part one discuss the use of graphic , that be visual , convention in contemporary poetry in english . how do we recognize ' a poem ' ( include apparent contravention , such as the ' prose-poem ' ) ? once a poem have be recognize , what be the interpretative convention bring into play for read it ? and especially , how have the spatial arrangement on the page become ' meaningful ' in its own right for much contemporary poetry ? the last question , of the semiosis of the 's een poem ' , be discuss at length , with numerous example from individual poem . for a consistent descriptive vocabulary for 'd iscourse ' and ' genre ' , a model of language and social context , derive from the work of the linguist m . a . k . halliday and the sociologist basil bernstein , where relevant , be explain and use . part two explore question which have be bring to the fore in part one . what be the origin of the line as the primary generic sign of poetry ? how do the potential for see , rather than speak , mean emerge ? it particularly focus on change in manuscript convention from old to middle english poetry , on the comparitvely late significance of print for poetic discourse , on the change , in an increasingly literate understand of ' literature ' , from a social to a personal understand of poetic mean from the late eighteenth century through the nineteenth century . if what have be regard as an object , ' the poem ' , be an outcome of the social process of textual interpretation and production , so too be what have be regard as ' the subject ' , that through which mean be authorize . available for review . email : sale @ cassellexport . demon . co . uk
