Subject: sintassus compara dell ' accordo participiale ramanzo

michele loporcaro sintassus compara dell ' accordo participiale romanzo rosenberg & sellier , torino , 1998 isbn 88-7011 - 719 - 7 , 272 page , lit . 65 . 0 address of the publisher : vium andrea dorium 14 , i-10123 torino grosenb @ tin . it ( credit card accept ) this book offer a comprehensive account of romance past participle ( pp ) agreement in verbal periphrastic , a much-debate topic in romance linguistics as well as in theoretical syntax . it main bulk consist of a systematic inventory of agreement system throughout romance ( ch . 3 - 4 ) , which be unprecedent as to both empirical coverage and level of detail . beside the standard language , dialect ( especially , but by no means exclusively , italo - romance one ) be consider thoroughly , base in part on first-hand datum . one of the basic point of this work be that no sensible account of pp agreement can be arrive at without in-depth consideration of dialect variation . more than sixty different system be take into account : for virtually all of them the discussion be not limit to select syntactic construction , but rather encompass the whole set of verbal periphrastic ( both perfective and passive ) consist of auxiliary + pp . among the agreement system analyze here several have not be previously describe . the presentation of romance syntactic variation in chapter 3 and 4 be precede by two introductory chapter and follow by three more theoretically orient one . ch . 1 deal with traditional account of pp agreement in romance linguistics and show why a fresh look at the phenomenon at issue be need . ch . 2 introduce the aim and method of the present monograph , which be cast in the framework of relational grammar . after the assessment of dialect variation in pp agreement ( ch . 3 - 4 ) , ch . 5 show that the analysis develop to account for it naturally project onto diachrony . the step through which pp agreement have evolve over time from latin to romance be show to closely match the parametric option evidence by synchronic geographic variation . ch . 6 compare the achievement of the present study with compete approach to pp agreement develop within the principle and parameter approach ( or earlier version of generative grammar ) . one of the main result of this comparison be the recognition of the fact that proposal put forward by generative grammarian - in spite of seem difference , due to the theoretical machinery use - be very much in keep with the descriptive tradition discuss ( and criticize ) in ch . 1 . ch . 6 also contain a discussion of pp agreement in the acquisition of italian as a first language . this domain of empirical datum can be naturally unify with dialectal and diachronic variation under the approach develop here . ch . 7 finally synthesize the result and elaborate on the internal articulation of the parametric condition involve in pp agreement throughout romance variety . the conclude table ( 29 ) display in half a page all the syntactically relevant information that be both necessary and sufficient to exhaustively characterize pp agreement through space and time across romance . finally , a list of keyword for this book would have to include a number of relate issue that must be deal with in connection with pp agreement and which be in fact repeatedly touch upon in the seven chapter . among these , auxiliary selection and the contrast between agreement of pps and of adjectival predicate figure most prominently . other topic discuss range from the syntactic nature of clitic to the representation of reflexive , impersonal construction , and existential , to mention just a few . * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
