Subject: language policy at the millenium

language policy at the millenium call for research reports , case studies , problem statements in language planning and policy the language policy research center in cooperation with the lechter institute and the lewi family fund for international conference in the humanity be now plan the second international symposium on language policy , language policy at the millennium , to be hold at bar - ilan university , ramat gan , israel , from november 23-25 , 1999 . our goal for the symposium be to provide an opportunity to reassess the current status of language policy study at the end of the century and to clarify theory and method of the field . we hope to identify question and define guideline for the next decade of research . six invite papers will serve as conceptual and theoretical jump off point for the shorter research report and case study request in this call . the focal papers will be give by joshua a . fishman , joseph lo bianco , lachman khubchandanus , peter nelde , carol myer - scotton , and bernard spolsky . in order to offer data-base challenge to the discussion , we invite abstract of research report , case study or statement of a problem in the field of language policy and plan , from which we will select a small number for presentation , each to be juxtapose with one of the focal papers . in addition , there will be a poster session for presentation of individual research . please submit your abstract of a proposal for a short research report , case study , or statement of a problem in an area of language policy by march 1 , 1999 to joel walter at the address below . notification of acceptance will be send by april 15 , 1999 . if you have question , feel free to contact us . sincerely , organize committee : muhammad amara , bar - ilan university ellen spolsky , bar - ilan university joel walter , bar - ilan university elana shohamy , tel - aviv university bernard spolsky , bar - ilan university language policy research center faculty of humanity bar - ilan university ramat gan , israel 52900 tel . 972 - 3-531 - 8125 fax 972 - 3-535 - 4062 email : waltej @ mail . biu . ac . il additional information will soon be available on the lprc website : http : / www . biu . il / hu / lprc
