Subject: review : torrego , the dependency of object .

torrego , esther , ( 1998 ) , the dependency of object . linguistic inquiry monograph 34 . cambridge , massachusett : the mit press . 197 page . review by alex alsina , universitat pompeu fabra ( barcelona ) . this book be a study of overtly case-mark object in spanish that pay attention to similar phenomenon in other language , particularly other romance language . it be well-known that direct object , or accusative object , in spanish , when express as full nps , or dps ( to use the author 's term ) , alternate between two form depend on various semantic and syntactic property : dps withouth any overt case morphology , and overtly case-mark dps . the overt case marker in question be the preposition " a " , which also mark dative object . the study adopt the minimalist program , outline by chomsky ( 1992 , 1994 , 1995 ) , as a framework for develop an analysis for the various phenomenon under investigation . synopsis chapter 1 outline the theoretical framework of the book and sketch the content of the subsequent chapter . chapter 2 present the various generalization that characterize spanish accusative object mark by the dative preposition . among these generalization be correlation between overt case-mark and specificity , between overt case-mark and telicity , between overt case-mark and an interpretation of the subject as an agent or a cause , etc . the common element in the explanation of all of these generalization be the idea that the mark accusative object raise overtly to a position outside vp , to the specifier position of the functional category v , which take the vp as its complement . for example , the two follow fact be observe : mark accusative require ( or may require ) a telic interpretation of the event which be absent with unmark accusative object , and an affect interpretation of the ( animate ) object require overt case-mark on the object . it be suggest that object move outside the vp have a delimit role for their predicate and , at the same time , the position to which object move , the spec of vp , be the locus of affectedness . thus , two different property of overt case-mark would be make to follow from the idea that overtly case-mark object in spanish undergo overt movement to spec of vp . likewise , the observation that overt case-mark on the object require the subject to be interpret as an agent or as a cause be link to the idea that an overtly case-mark object be in spec-v p and to the hypothesis that the causative or agent role be assign to the v - vp configuration . torrego propose that there be two type of mark accusative , one with structural case and the other with inherent case . mark accusative be inherent with causative and agentive verb and those with affect object , and be structural with other verb . this theoretical difference be appeal to in order to account for an asymmetry with respect to extraction out of mark accusative object : such extraction be ill-form with the former class of verb , but not with the latter . the presence of the extra structure create by the inherent case marker be a crucial element in the explanation of this contrast . chapter 3 examine variation in causative structure in spanish and argue that this variation be largely condition by case assignment . much of the discussion be base on a causative structure in which the causee appear between the causative verb " hacer " ' make ' and the infinitive . one of the goal of the chapter be to explain the restriction on the " faire-par " causative in several spanish dialect . in these dialect , the " faire-par " causative be only fully acceptable in the follow situation : ( 1 ) when an object clitic be present , or ( 2 ) when a reflexive clitic be present , and that , otherwise they be best with verb identify as " constructive accomplishment " such as ' build ' or with case-mark object . chapter 4 analyze construction with dative object , both with ditransitive verb and with unaccusative . restriction regard construction with two object with identical case-mark be examine . the chapter also deal with contrast between the presence and absence of double clitic . a comparison be make with the double object construction in english . an analysis be present of the contrast in raise construction with 's eem ' between those without the dative argument ( acceptable ) and those with it ( unacceptable ) . conclusion be briefly summarize at the end . critical discussion this book be a mine of linguistic puzzle concern object , causative construction , clitic , and relate phenomenon in spanish . it be of interest to anyone concern with these matter , regardless of what analysis and what theoretical framework one may wish to adopt . this book be also of interest to linguist who want to find out how the minimalist program can be apply to a particular empirical domain . the author have do a great job of synthesize the datum and present generalization that need to be explain . despite these positive aspect of the book , i experience serious frustration while read it have to do with the datum and with the analysis . data the problem with the datum , which be a minor one compare to the other one , have to do with the fact that many of the datum present be alien to the variety of spanish that i speak or be familiar with . naturally , i cannot claim to know all variety of spanish , so i should not be surprise to discover datum that do not belong to the spanish that i know . some example follow . torrego present a contrast in pp . 58-59 between " a quiene ( le ) vieron ? " and " a quiene ( * lo ) vieron ? " , but both form be equally ill-form for me when the clitic ( the form in parenthesis ) be include . the example " la guerra lo hizo subir " in page 101 be claim to allow only an animate read for the clitic " lo " , although for me it also allow an inanimate read , but then this fact be claim to hold only in spanish dialect where the pre-infinitival causee with " hacer " and an intransitive verb be attest , and i find this causative structure highly marginal ( example such as " la maestra hizo a lo alumno subir " ) . and the construction exemplify by sentence such as " me hizo pedir yo , " which be analyze in this book , be also alien to me . the main problem with these numerous discrepancy about the datum be that it make it hard to evaluate when a difference in the interpretation of the datum be due to a difference in the datum ( that may not be obvious ) or to a possible misanalysis of what actually be the same datum . to illustrate this , consider the argument give in support of the claim that the structure embed under " hacer " in a sentence like " la guerra hizo subir lo precio " be a single unit ( p . 102 ) . torrego claim that standard constituency test indicate that the sequence " subir lo precio " in this sentence be a constituent and provide example such as the follow in support of this claim : ( 38 ) a . lo que la guerra hizo e subir lo precio . what the war cause be to rise the price d . que ha hecho la guerra sino subir lo precio ? what have the war cause except rise the price ? for me the translation of these sentence be not as indicate in the gloss , but rather as " what the war do be to raise the price . " and " what have the war do but raise the price ? " for ( 38a ) and ( 38d ) respectively . i would tend to believe that torrego be play on the polysemy of " hacer " and " subir " . " hacer " can be either the causative verb mean ' cause ' or ' make ' or the generic transitive verb translatable as 'd o ' , and " subir " can be either intransitive , equivalent to ' rise ' , or transitive , equivalent to ' raise ' . for the example in ( 38 ) to be relevant to torrego 's claim , " hacer " must be causative and " subir " intransitive . what make these exemple acceptable ( even though not perfect ) for me be that " subir " can be take to be a transtive verb , whose unexpress subject be coreferential with " la guerra " . but , under this interpretation , " hacer " would not be function as the causative verb , but as the counterpart of 'd o ' . what show conclusively that , in my variety of spanish , this interpretation be right be that , if , instead of " subir " , we use a verb that only have an intransitive use , we get an unacceptable result . " caer " ' fall ' be such a verb : even though the sequence " caer lo precio " can appear follow the causative verb " hacer " , as in " la guerra hizo caer lo precio , " it cannot appear as a focus or topicalize constituent of this verb , as we see in ( i ) . ( i ) a . * lo que la guerra hizo e caer lo precio . what the war do / cause be to fall the price b . * que ha hecho la guerra sino caer lo precio ? what have the war do / cause except fall the price ? > from this i would conclude that torrego 's datum in ( 38 ) do not provide any evidence for the claim that a sequence such as " subir lo precio " in a causative construction be a constituent , because those example do not include the causative verb " hacer " . of course , i can only reach this conclusion for the variety of spanish that i be familiar with , where ( i ) be ungrammatical . but , for all i know , the example in ( i ) could be grammatical in the variety of spanish analyze by torrego , in which case my conclusion would not apply and the example in ( 38 ) would constitute relevant evidence for the claim under investigation . analysis my second difficulty with this book be in the analysis ( or analysis ) provide . i have trouble understand many of the analysis give : in many case , i fail to derive the prediction that should follow from the analysis , i cannot tell what would constitute a counterexample to the analysis , i cannot figure out what role a give assumption play in the analysis , etc . this could well be due to a deficiency on my part , but other reader may experience the same difficulty . next , i will point out some problem case . 1 . chapter 2 of the book start out with a list of six generalization about mark accusative ( pp . 14-16 ) : ( 1 ) mark accusative can cooccur with double clitic in some dialect ( it be a necessary condition for clitic double ) , ( 2 ) mark accusative object be interpret as specific , ( 3 ) telicity require mark accusative ( with animate object ) , ( 4 ) the subject in a clause with a mark accusative object be an agent or a cause , ( 5 ) mark accusative be restrict to animate , and ( 6 ) affect animate object require mark accusative . the indication give all along be that these generalization will follow from a unify analysis . the main idea underlie this analysis be that an object with mark accusative raise to the specifier position of the functional category v , which take a vp as its complement . ideally , an overt movement operation of this kind should have some testable effect on word order and all of the property of the construction should follow straightforwardly from this operation . however , as torrego note , there be no visible effect of object raise on word order , so that the motivation for the analysis rest entirely on how well it explain the generalization list above . and these generalization be explain by attribute the various property that correlate with overt case-mark to the spec of v - vp position on a one-by - one basis . for example , it be propose that the spec of v - vp have a specific interpretation , that the presence of an object in spec of v - vp may shift the aspect of the predicate to a telic situation , that the presence of an object in spec of v - vp give an agentive interpretation to the subject , etc . one wonder why this analysis should be preferable to one that attribute all of these property directly to overt case-mark : in both case , a one-by - one stipulation of those property be require . it be not clear what the advantage be in attribute these property to a special phrase structure position for which very weak evidence be give . 2 . in pp . 23 ff , torrego claim that there be two type of mark accusative : mark accusative of non-affect object be structural case , wherea mark acusative of affect object be inherent case . however , this claim be face with a major problem that torrego note , but then simply disregard . inherent ( or quirky ) case have the generally accept property that it be preserve under passivization : an argument with inherent case do n't lose or change its case mark when its clause be passivize . genitive and dative case in icelandic be a good example of this , and dative case in spanish be also a good example of case mark that do not change from active to passive . however , the mark accusative case of affect object in spanish be not preserve ( see relevant example in p . 28 ) . torrego note that , in contrast with spanish , some hindus dialect preserve the accusative " - ko " mark in passive , cite mohanan 1990 . torrego then go on to say ( p . 29 ) : " if the mark accusative of " affect " object be inherent , overt mark in passivization could be preserve ( just as the mark of dative and genitive be preserve in icelandic passive ) . it remains to be see whether relevant datum from the dialect of hindus confirm this expectation . " but the relevant datum from the dialect of hindus do confirm this expectation , as the example from mohanan 1990 ( also mohanan 1994 ) show . if we agree that we identify inherent case because its case mark be preserve under passivization , then we must conclude that mark accusative case be inherent in some dialect of hindus , because its case mark do not change under passivization , but be structural in the other dialect of hindus , where it do change under passivization . and we be force to conclude that it be structural in spanish because it be not preserve under passivization . to ignore this evidence and still conclude that mark accusative case can be inherent case in spanish be to devoid the distinction between structural case and inherent case of the conceptual and empirical substance that it be standardly asociate with . and torrego do not explicitly reject this association . 3 . the agentivity effect of clause with mark accusative be explain as follow : follow a suggestion of chomsky 's ( 1995 ) , the causative or the agent role can be understand as the interpretation assign to the v - vp configuration ; since mark accusative be assign to object that raise to spec of vp , the presence of mark accusative imply the existence of the v - vp configuration . therefore , whenever there be mark accusative , there must be an agentive or causative interpretation . but what happen with verb that allow an alternation between mark and unmark accusative on the object ? this should mean that such verb should alternate between a v - vp configuration and some other configuration , but this second option be not spell out . also , we have no way of know what consequence the presence or absence of the v - vp configuration have other than on overt case mark and on the corelation between overt case mark and other property such as agentivity . 4 . in pp . 34 ff . , torrego try to relate the idea that mark accusative on affect object be lexical quirky case to grimshaw 's ( 1990 ) theory of quirky case - mark . in grimshaw 's theory , argument at argument structure be rank by prominence in two tier : the aspectual tier and the thematic tier . adopt this theory , torrego propose ( p . 36 ) that " an argument ( subject or object ) can be lexically or quirky mark when it have thematic or aspectual prominence relative to the other argument . " it be unclear how one be to interpret this proposal . prominence be a comparative property : a be more or less prominent than b . to say that a have prominence relative to b be either meaningless or would be true of any pair of argument in an argument structure : it be necessarily true of any pair of argument a and b of an argument structure that a be in a prominence relation to b . torrego go on to state : " the two argument of an agentive telic transitive verb be both aspectually prominent . " but this should be true of all transitive verb . torrego go on to conclude : " this approach cover the fact that the object of only agentive and caustive verb can or must be lexically or quirky case - mark , and also cover the fact that the overall phenomenon of mark accusative case happen with verb that have agentive subject . " i fail to see how these prediction be derive . 5 . regard the animacy restriction on overtly case - mark object , torrego propose that the term " actor " be more appropriate to characterize the class of nominal that appear in mark accusative than the term " animate " . the motivation for this terminological change be find in the existence of some expression denote inanimate entity that can take overt case - mark , as in the follow example ( p . 55 ) : ( 45 ) el acido afecta ( a ) lo metale . ' acid affect metal . ' ( i suspect that the presence of mark accusative in this example have more to do with the verb than with the semantics of the object . ) torrego do not propose a definition of " actor " , but refer the reader to jackendoff 's ( 1983 ) characterization of " actor " as the character in an action-type event that perform the action . given this characterization , it be hard to see how " lo metale " ' the metal ' in example ( 45 ) can be interpret as the argument that perform the action of the event ; what would " el acido " ' the acid ' be , then ? torrego go on to say : " the distinction between " animate " ( or " actor " - like nominal ) and " inanimate " do not appear to be semantic in nature . " this be an odd claim to make , give that the notion of " actor , " which be propose to replace " animate , " be give a semantic characterization . the motivation for this claim , however , be find in the fact that certain expression , specifically proper name of human , can be use to refer to anything , from a boat to a magazine to a can of beer , and alway require overt case morphology , as in the follow example : ( 46 ) esconde * ( a ) barbara . ' hide barbara . ' it be suggest that a purely morphological property underlie overt case - mark , although no indication be give as to what this morphological property may be . possibly the most robust generalization about overt case - mark of object in spanish be that it be restrict to " animate " , even though there be problem case such as example ( 45 ) and " personify " expression such as ( 46 ) . because of these problem , torrego give no explanation for the correlation between case - mark and animate interpretation and between absence of case - mark and inanimate interpretation that we see in pair such as ( ii ) and ( iii ) : ( ii ) a . esconde a este . ( ' hide this one ( male animate entity ) . ' ) b . esconde este . ( ' hide this one ( inanimate entity ) . ' ) ( iii ) a . veremo a otra . ( ' we shall see another one ( female animate entity ) . ' ) a . veremo otra . ( ' we shall see another one ( inanimate entity ) . ' ) general remark torrego often appeal to intuition in the exposition of the analysis and do not work out the detail of the analysis . the follow remark , very reminiscent of chomsky 's style , illustrate this point ( p . 139 , end of 3rd par . ) : " whatever the detail of this intuitive account be , the general approach seem quite plausible . " if one do not work out the detail of an account , it be not possible to derive prediction from it , and therefore the theory be unfalsifiable . this work by torrego be part of a move toward derive explanation from very general and simple principle that interact in complex way with each other . this move be a welcome one , but we should be careful that it do not land us in vagueness and imprecision . there be a style of explanation in which appeal be make to principle , often unstate or imprecisely state principle , from which prediction be claim to follow , but in which the derivation of prediction ( the logical step from which prediction follow ) be not work out and it be not possible to know what a prediction of the theory really be and what a counterexample to the theory may be . there be a danger that a reader of torrego 's " the dependency of object " may have the impression that the explanation in this book be of this style . to prevent this impression , torrego should have make a greater effort in term of exposition ( even if it means lead the reader by the hand ) to show how the various prediction be derive . for that , it be necessary to state the crucial principle explicitly , as number item so the reader can refer to them easily , to make the assumption about representation also explicit , and to give step-by - step derivation of the various prediction . references chomsky , noam . 1992 . a minimalist program for linguistic theory . mit work paper in linguistic , no . 1 . chomsky , noam . 1994 . bbe phrase structure . mit occasional paper in linguistic , no . 5 . chomsky , noam . 1995 . the minimalist program . mit press . grimshaw , jane . 1990 . argument structure . mit press . jackendoff , ray . 1983 . semantic and cognition . mit press . mohanan , tara . 1990 . argument in hindus . ph . d . dissertation , stanford university . mohanan , tara . 1994 . argument structure in hindus . stanford : csli publication . reviewer : alex alsina , professor titular d ' universitat , faculty of translation and interpretation , universitat pompeu fabra , barcelona , spain . ph . d . , stanford university , 1993 . research interest include syntax , morphology , morphosyntax , argument structure , linguistic theory . reviewer 's address : alex alsina facultat de traduccio i interpretacio universitat pompeu fabra la ramblum , 30-32 08002 barcelona spain alex . alsina @ trad . upf . e
