Subject: student conference in linguistic

call for papers student conference in linguistic 11 special theme : endanger language keynote speaker : jonathan david bobaljik may 8 - 9 , 1999 the university of texa at austin the 11th annual student conference in linguistic will be hold at the university of texa at austin may 8 - 9 , 1999 . scil be a student-run conference which aim to bring together graduate student from around the world to present their research and build connection with other student . the proceedings be publish in the mit work paper in linguistic . we invite original , unpublish work in any area of linguistics . we would particularly like to encourage submission which focus on endanger or underdescribe language , in keep with the conference theme . guideline for submission : please submit ten copy of a one-page , 500 - word , anonymous abstract for a twenty-minute paper ( optionally , one additional page for datum and / or reference may be append ) , along with a 3 " by 5 " card with : ( 1 ) your name , ( 2 ) your affiliation , ( 3 ) your address , phone number , and e-mail address , ( 4 ) the title of the paper , and ( 5 ) an indication of which subdivision of linguistics best describe the topic ( e . g . , phonetic , phonology , syntax , semantic , psycholinguistic , anthropological linguistic , computational linguistic , sociolinguistic , etc . ) the abstract should be as specific as possible , and it should clearly indicate the datum cover , outline the argument present , and include any broader implication of the work . the deadline for receipt of abstract be 5 : 0 pm , february 15 , 1999 . send abstract to : scil 11 abstract committee department of linguistic 501 calhoun hall the university of texa at austin austin , texa 78712 e - mail abstract will be accept . please email us or consult our web page for detail instruction . email abstract should be submit to scil @ ccwf . cc . utexa . edu by 5 : 0 pm , february 15 , 1999 . further information be available at http : / / ccwf . cc . utexa . edu / ~ scil / index . html question can be direct to scil @ ccwf . cc . utexa . edu - ralph c . blight department of linguistic , the university of texa at austin http : / / ccwf . cc . utexa . edu / ~ gizzmo / index . html
