Subject: sociolinguistic symposium 2000

haa27974 status : r university of the west of england , bristol ( uwe , bristol ) centre for european studies ( ces ) , faculty of languages and european studies ( les ) & school of sociology , faculty of economics and social sciences ( ess ) sociolinguistic symposium 2000 the interface between linguistic and social theory 27-29 april 2000 call for papers the sociolinguistic symposium 2000 be the thirteenth meet of the sociolinguistic symposium which meet once every two year . this conference will focus primarily on the interface between linguistic and social theory , and it be hop the meet will contribute to further cooperation between the two discipline . the conference welcome papers from a range of different subject area such as : language variation and change , language and gender , language and the media , discourse analysis , language in contact , creole linguistics , intercultural communication , language and migration , social stratification of language , language development and other relate topic . keynote speakers professor jack chamber ( toronto ) : leader and lagger in the diffusion of change professor david corson ( toronto ) critical realism : an emancipatory social philosophy for sociolinguistic professor pieter muysken ( leiden ) : radical modularity and the possibility of sociolinguistic professor shana poplack ( ottawa ) : the social context of linguistic variation ( work title ) professor ruth wodak ( vienna ) : doe sociolinguistic need social theory ? new perspective in critical discourse analysis provisional titles of colloquia language , nationalism and minority right multilingualism and migration intercultural communication language contact along the language frontier discourse suggestion for other colloquium be welcome ( see deadline for application on the back of this page ) . committee professor michael scriven ( dean , les , uwe , bristol ) professor alison assiter ( dean , ess , uwe , bristol ) mr felix bihlmeier ( associate dean ( resource ) , les , uwe , bristol ) dr susan price ( associate dean ( academic affair ) of les , uwe , bristol ) dr carman arnaiz ( uwe , bristol ) mr keat beech ( uwe , bristol ) mr john bird ( uwe , bristol ) professor jim coleman ( university of portsmouth ) professor nikola coupland ( university of cardiff ) dr aidan coveney ( university of exeter ) dr helmut daller ( uwe , bristol ) professor roy harri ( university of oxford ) dr stephen may ( university of bristol ) dr tom osborne ( university of bristol ) dr mark sebba ( university of lancaster ) dr salus tagliamonte ( university of york ) dr jeanine treffer - daller ( uwe , bristol ) mr jem thoma ( uwe , bristol ) dr glyn william ( university of wale at bangor ) deadlines the deadline for proposal of colloquium be : 1 june 1999 . the deadline for submission of abstract be : 1 september 1999 . abstract be welcome for oral presentation ( 20 min + 10 min discussion ) or poster presentation . please send 4 hard copy , one of which contain your name and address , as well as an electronic version ( rich text format ) of the abstract to the address give below . for more information more information about the conference programme , the venue and the general organisation of the event can be find either on our website : http : / / www . uwe . ac . uk / facult / le / research / sociling2000 . html or at our address / number below : jessa karkus / jeanine treffer - daller centre for european study ( ces ) faculty of language and european study university of the west of england , bristol frenchay campus , coldharbour lane bristol , bs16 1qy , uk e - mail : jessa . karkus @ uwe . ac . uk ( administrative matter ) jeanine . treffer - daller @ uwe . ac . uk ( academic affair ) tel : + + 44 117 976 3842 , ext 2724 , fax : + + 44 117 976 2626
