Subject: interaction in virtual world

workshop interaction in virtual world may 19-21 , 1999 parlevink research group university of twente / ctit enschede the netherland introduction the parlevink research group of the centre of telematic and information technology ( ctit ) be please to announce a 3 - day workshop on interaction in virtual reality ( vr ) environment . anyone deal with theoretical , empirical , computational , experimental , sociological and anthropological aspect of vr environment that be either purely artificial or use real world characteristic be invite to participate in this workshop . in this workshop the emphasis be on vr environment that provide means for interact with the object in the environment , with embed information source and service ( possibly represent as agent ) or with other user and visitor of the environment . motivation in recent year we have see that the computer science and the cognitive ergonomics community have discover and be explore the possibility of vr in user interface . in order to visualize available information and to provide user access to this information , virtual environment have be build such that user can find and explore information , communicate with other user and can communicate with object and agent in the virtual world . this workshop emphasize the role of vr in interface and in environment in which people share knowledge and experience and in which new form of interactivity will emerge . in particular we want to explore the role of speech and language in virtual environment . how can we navigate in vr use speech and language , how can we model multimodal access to such environment , how can we communicate with other human and with artificial agent in the vr environment , etc . the workshop be organize in the context of the u - wish project of the dutch telematic institute . format the format of the workshop will consist of keynote presentation by expert in the field of vr , dialogue model and speech and language process , combine with presentation of accept papers . all presentation will be plenary . submission procedure researcher work in this domain be invite to email a 400 - word abstract ( plain ascius format ) , together with title , affiliation and keyword to twlt15 @ c . utwente . nl . invite and accept papers will be publish in the workshop proceedings . invited lectures niel ole bernsen ( odense university . odense , denmark : coordinator of i3net , the european network for intelligent information interface . i3 be create in 1997 in order to take a human-centr approach to the exploration of new , visionary interactive system for people in their everyday activity . lilus cheng ( microsoft research , seattle , wa . , usa ) : lead program manager in the microsoft research 's virtual world group , work on the virtual world platform . at nyu , cheng design graphic and create the human interface for one of the first participatory , real time render 3d environment which be broadcast tri-weekly from nyu . lilus be a register architect and design commercial architecture in both tokyo and lo angele . jame n . davidson ( cedes , seattle , wa . , usa ) : project manager of the community and environmental design simulation lab , ( cedes ) , jointly sponsor by the college of architecture and urban plan and the human interface technology lab of the university of washington . the mandate for this lab be to research and teach the use of real-time simulation and vr for urban , architectural and landscape design , and the creation of virtual space and environment . jame c . lester ( north carolina state university , raleigh , usa ) : the primary objective of lester 's research be to design , construct , and empirically evaluate computational mechanism to support hci in educational and scientific software . hbe interest focus on develop advance animate and natural language explanation system that facilitate learn and scientific analysis . stephen n . matsuba ( vrml dream company , toronto , canada : matsuba have author a series of vr space for cyberstage live : an on-line journal deal with the art and technology . hbe interest be focus on multimedium and vr application . he and other develop a vrml - base theatre adaptation of shakespeare 's a midsummer night 's dream . pierre nugue ( ismra - caen , france ) research of pierre nugue be focus on natural language process for speak dialogue and user interface . this include design & implementation of conversational agent within a multimodal framework . program committee program chairman : anton nijholt ( ctit , enschede ) niel ole bernsen , jame n . davidson , jame c . lester , stephen n . matsuba , pierre nugue & oliviero stock organizing committee local chairman : betsy van dijk olaf donk , bori van schooten & hendrus hondorp venue the workshop on " interaction in virtual world " will take place in the computer science build at the campus of the university of twente , enschede , the netherland . hotel accommodation be available at the campus and in two nearby city . important dates march 1 : deadline for submit abstract march 15 : notification of acceptance , instruction for author , information on accommodation april 15 : dead - line for camera-ready papers may 19-21 : workshop further information for further information , please contact olaf donk ( donk @ c . utwente . nl ) . update information will also be available at http : / / wwwsetus . c . utwente . nl / parlevink / conference / twlt15 . html
