Subject: syntax - semantic workshop

call for abstract move and interpret alpha : workshop on movement-relate issue in the syntax , semantics , and the syntax-semantic interface march 20-21 , 1999 keynote speaker : kyle johnson , university of massachusett , amherst center of excellence kanda university of international study makuharus , chiba , japan we invite abstract submission for 40 - minute talk on issue have to do with movement which arise in the area of syntax , semantics , and the syntax-semantic interface . work which aim to distinguish interpretation by means of movement , discuss the syntactic or semantic repercussion of movement , investigate the syntactic or semantic aspect of movement-creat dependency , or argue for or against the use of movement for deal with particular syntactic or semantic phenomenon be welcome . possibly relevant topic include wh-movement , quantifier raise , reconstruction , quantifier float , island effect , parasitic gap , pied-pip , and relative clause . the deadline for receipt of abstract be january 31st , 1999 . please send five copy of a non-anonymous abstract ( maximally 2 page in length , use a legible font , with 1 " margin on all side , a4 or us letter paper ) , along with a sheet of paper bear the author 's name , affiliation , paper title , and e-mail and regular mail address . e - mail submission will also be accept ( . p or . pdf format ) . send abstract by mail to : move and interpret alpha workshop coe , kanda university of international study 1 - 4 - 1 wakaba , mihama - ku chiba - shus , chiba - ken japan 261-0014 send abstract or question by e-mail to both ulus sauerland and norvin richard at : ulus @ kanda . kui . ac . jp , norvin @ kanda . kui . ac . jp ( please send e-mail to both address ) author of accept abstract will be inform by february 8th , 1999 . subject to the availability of fund , we will try to cover accomodation expense for speaker from outside of japan for the time of the workshop , but not travel expense . kanda university be locate in makuharus , between narita tokyo international airport and downtown tokyo . for more information about the coe and kanda university , please consult the web at : coe http : / / coe-sun . kui . ac . jp / kanda http : / / www . kui . ac . jp /
