Subject: basic course in neurolinguistic

first circular december 1998 the department of linguistic at the university of oslo and the nordic neurolinguistic network be please to announce that a nordic research course , sponsor by the nordic academy for advance study ( norfa ) : basic course in neurolinguistic will be hold at sanner hotell , granavollen 3 - 5 , 2750 grun , norway , june 11-15 , 1999 . the course will consist of three component : ( i ) survey lecture by dr . susan edward ( department of linguistic science , university of read ) , dr . heidus hamilton ( department of linguistic , georgetown university ) , dr . mattus laine ( department of psychology , turku university ) , professor bruce murdoch ( department of speech pathology and audiology , university of brisbane ) ; ( ius ) seminar with individual presentation by the student and post-paper discussion ; ( iius ) discussion session toward the end of a topic area , focus on the methodological and theoretical issue share by the papers present . criterium for student selection in addition to those define by norfa ( with regard to country of origin , etc . ) be : ( a ) the participant should have a strong background in one or several of the follow discipline or relate area : linguistics , psychology , neurology , cognitive science , phonetics , logopaedic and / or special education . ( b ) the topic of the course ( neurolinguistic ) should occupy a significant position in the phd or post-doctorate study or study plan of the participant . the number of student participant will be restrict to 20 . pre - course requirement in addition to the general norfa requirement : ( a ) the applicant should send , together with their application , a 3 - 5 page long abstract of their work ( plan or ongo ) in the topic area of the course . ( b ) a list of require pre-read material will be send to the participant in advance of the course . norfa will cover the cost of tuition , board and lodge during the course , and travel expence ( cheapest mode of travel ) for student from the nordic country . for further detail contact the responsible organiser . application procedure : send a free-form application to inger moen ( below ) by march 1 , 1999 . please enclose a brief cv and a 3 - 5 page long abstract of your work ( plan or ongo ) in the topic area of the course . those accept will be notify by april 1 . responsible organiser : professor inger moen , department of linguistic , university of oslo , p . o . box 1102 , blindern , n-0317 oslo , norway , phone + 47 22 85 42 64 , fax + 47 22 85 69 19 , e - mail inger . moen @ ilf . uio . no . web site : http : / / www . hf . uio . no / ilf / neurole
