Subject: chinese linguistic ; complete word of luo changpeus

the complete work of luo changpeus will be publish in 1999 by shandong education publish house in china . a commemorative meet will be hold in beij on the hundredth anniversary of the author 's birth , august 9 , 1999 . on the same occasion the luo changpeus linguistic scholarship foundation will be announce . luo changpeus be one of the founder of modern linguistics in china . he stand on the shoulder of the giant in this field and explore diverse branch of the science . he be in the first generation of linguistic scientist from the institute of history and philology of the academium sinica . he establish the institute of linguistic of the chinese academy of social science , assume its direction and be nominate academician . hbe contribution be historic . the anthology include the author 's publish and unpublish work in ten volumes , of which the first six be book and the last four monograph . each volume have an editorial acknowledgement and postnote . annex to vol . x be a biographical outline and two index , one by alphabetic order , the other by stroke . please direct inquiry to wl @ pub . casc . cn . net ( luo shengyus ) . vol . i . 1 . the phonological system of the amoy dialect 2 . the phonological system of the speech of linchuan vol . ii . 1 . the speech of north - west china under the tang dynasty and the five kingdom 2 . a study of rime evolution under the weus , jin and north - south dynasty ( co-author with zhou zumo ) vol . iii . 1 . an introduction to chinese phonology 2 . history of the romanization of chinese character 3 . rime in beij folk song ( annex , collection of popular rime ) vol . iv . minority language 1 . a preliminary study of the qiu language of gongshan 2 . a preliminary study of the nu language of gongshan 3 . a preliminary study of the baiyus language of lianshan ( co-author with xing qinglan , recheck by zhou yaowen and fang fenghe ) 4 . chinese under the yuan dynasty and the bagsba character ( revise edition , co-author with caus meibiao ) vol . v . 1 . an outline of general phonetic ( revise edition , co-author with wang jun ) 2 . language and culture 3 . the chinese and the chinese language vol . vi . unpublish course handout 1 . evolution of the chinese phonological system ( table and legend ) 2 . comment on publication abroad about chinese phonology 3 . about ancient chinese phonology vol . vii . 1 . monograph on philology and linguistic ( i ) 2 . monograph on philology and linguistic ( ii ) vol . viii . 1 . column on chinese phonology 2 . influence from abroad on the study of chinese phonology vol . ix . 1 . monograph about chinese dialect and minority language ( 40 essay ) 2 . linguistic miscellany ( 38 essay ) vol . x . 1 . chinese linguistic essay in foreign language 2 . on the tough route of sichuan 3 . between canshan mountain and lake erhaus 4 . biography 5 . index : alphabetic and stroke editorial committee : advisor : lu " shuxiang * , ma xueliang , wu zongjus , zhang qingchang * , gao huanian * ( decease ) chief editor : wang jun deputy editor : zhou dingyus , sun hongkaus , gao gengsheng , yuchus zhip editor ( by stroke order ) : wang jun , wang hongxin , sun hongkaus , shao rongfen , yang naisus , li zhaoxiang , zhou dingyus , luo shengyus , luo shenyus , gao gengsheng , yuchus zhip , xie rongdaus , caus meibiao editor in charge : suus xiancun secretary : luo shengyus ( person to contact ) zhong guan cun bldg 78 , apt 206 beij , 100080 tel . & fax : 86-62 55 84 19 e - mail : wl @ pub . casc . cn . net
