Subject: linguistic association of great britain

linguistics association of great britain spring meet 1999 : university of manchester first circular and call for paper the 1999 spring meet will be hold from 8 to 10 april at manchester university . the local organiser be philippa cook ( mfux9phc @ fs1 . art . man . ac . uk ) . manchester be england 's third ( or possibly second ) biggest city and as such have facility for any kind of music , dance , theatre , restaurant and cafe . apart from a vibrant city centre , the city also benefit from the closeness to beautiful country side ; the lake district , the peak district and the mountain of north wale be all within easy reach for day trip . manchester can be easily access by road or by rail and just south of the city be a major intrnational airport with good rail connection with the city centre . the university of manchester , include the hall of residence where the conference will be hold , be situate just south of the city centre and there be bus in both direction every few minute . accommodation : accommodation as well as all talk , book display etc . will be in hulme hall , a hall of residence , less than ten minute walk from the main university campus . all bedroom be single , and there be a choice between room with en suite facility and room with share bathroom / shower . travel : the university of manchester be about five minute drive from junction 9 of the ring road m60 which be accessible from the m6 ( north or south ) and the m62 ( north east ) . there be frequent ( and often direct ) train to manchester piccadilly ( or manchester victorium ) from most big city in britain . the train journey from london take about two and a half hour . the airport be less than half an hour drive from the hall of residence and it also have excellent train connection with the city centre . event : the linguistic association 1999 lecture on thursday even will be deliver by professor john mccarthy of the university of massachusett , amherst . professor mccarthy will also be participate in a workshop on ' application of optimality theory to problem in prosody and morphology ' on thursday afternoon . the workshop be organise by wiebke brockhaus ( university of manchester ) ; other contributor be caroline fery ( eberhard - karl - universitaet ) , ren kager ( universiteit utrecht ) and nichola sherrard ( university of essex ) . there will be a language tutorial on turkish , give by jaklin kornfilt ( university of syracuse ) . there will be a wine party on the tuesday even , sponsor by the department of linguistic . enquiry about the lagb meet should be send to the meeting secretary ( address below ) . full detail of the programme and a book form will be include in the second circular , to be send out in january . call for papers the lagb warmly welcome submission on any topic within the field of linguistics - theoretical , descriptive or historical - regardless of theoretical framework . abstract must arrive by 6 january 1999 and should be send in the format outline below to the follow address : professor r . hudson , department of phonetic and linguistic , university college london , gower street , london , wc1e 6bt . paper for the programme be select anonymously - only the president know the name of the author . abstract must be present as follow : submit seven anonymous copy of the abstract , plus one with name and affiliation , i . e . camera-ready . the complete abstract contain your title and your name must be no longer than one a4 page ( 21cm x 29 . 5cm / 8 . 27 " x 11 . 69 " ) with margin of at least 2 . 5cm ( 1 " ) on all side . you may use single space and type must be no smaller than 12 point . type uniformly in black and make any addition in black . use the best quality printer you can , since if the paper be accept the abstract will be photocopy and insert directly into the collection of abstract send out to participant . write your name and address for correspondence on the back of the abstract which has your name on . the follow layout should be consider as standard : ( title ) optimality and the klingon vowel shift ( speaker ) clark kent ( institution ) department of astrology , eastern mar university the follow guideline may be useful : 1 . briefly state the topic of your paper . 2 . if your paper be to involve an analysis of linguistic material , give critical example , along with a brief indication of their critical nature . 3 . state the relevance of your idea to past work or to the future development of the field . if you be take a stand on a controversial issue , summarise the argument which lead you to take up this position . the normal length for papers deliver at lagb meeting be 25 minute ( plus 15 minute discussion ) . offer of squib ( 10 minute ) or longer papers ( 40 minute ) will also be consider : please explain why your paper require less or more time than usual . n . b . abstracts submission dates : these be alway announce in the first circular for the meet in question . any member who fear that they may receive the first circular too late to be able to submit an abstract before the deadline specify can be assure that an abstract receive by the president by january 1 or june 1 will alway be consider for the next meet . conference bursary : there will be a maximum of 10 bursary available to unsalary member of the association ( e . g . phd student ) with preference give to those who be present a paper . application should be send to the president , and must be receive by 6 january 1999 . please state on your application : ( a ) date of join the lagb ; ( b ) whether or not you be an undergraduate or postgraduate student ; ( c ) if a student , whether you receive a normal grant ; ( d ) if not a student , your employment situation . students who are submitting an abstract and wish to apply for fund should include all the above detail with their abstract . committee member : president professor richard hudson , department of phonetic and linguistic , university college london , gower street , london , wc1e 6bt . e - mail : dick @ ling . ucl . ac . uk honorary secretary professor anna siewierska , department of linguistic , university of lancaster , bailrigg , lancaster la1 4yw , e - mail : a . siewierska @ lancaster . ac . uk membership secretary dr . kerstus brjar , department of linguistic , university of manchester , manchester m13 9pl . e - mail : k . e . borjar @ manchester . ac . uk meeting secretary dr . marjolein groefsema , dept . of linguistic , university of hertfordshire , watford campus , aldenham , hert . wd2 8at . e - mail : m . groefsema @ hert . ac . uk treasurer dr . paul rowlett , dept . of modern language , university of salford , salford m5 4wt . e - mail : p . a . rowlett @ mod-lang . salford . ac . uk assistant secretary dr . april mcmahon , dept . of linguistic , university of cambridge , sidgwick avenue , cambridge cb3 9dq . e - mail : amm11 @ herm . cam . ac . uk internet home page : the lagb internet home page be now active at the follow address : http : / / clwww . essex . ac . uk / lagb . electronic network : please join the lagb electronic network which be use for disseminate lagb information and for consult member quickly . it can be subscribe to by send the message " add lagb " to : listserv @ postman . essex . ac . uk . future meeting : autumn 1999 university of york . spring 2000 university college london . autumn 2000 university of durham spring 2001 university of leed autumn 2001 university of read
