Subject: comutational linguistic - general & thematic session

acl ' 99 call for paper 37th annual meet of the association for computational linguistic 20 - - 26 june , 1999 university of maryland [ you may find it easier to read this information on the web at http : / / www . mrus . mq . edu . au / conf / acl99 ] 1 . paper session 1 . 1 topic of interest in a break with tradition , at this year 's acl conference we be experiment with a new format . the technical session of the conference will be of two kind . there will be general session of the kind that have form the conference programme in the past ; however , there will also be a number of special thematic session , somewhat like a special issue of a journal , organise around theme propose by member of the computational linguistics community . our aim be to incorporate some of the intensity and excitement of the traditional post-conference workshop , without replace those workshop . the conference structure will mean that the thematic session will run as parallel session , result in smaller and more focus audience . when you submit a paper to the conference , you will need to consider whether you want to present the paper in the general session or in one of the thematic session , which be list below . for the general session , papers be invite on substantial , original , and unpublish research on all aspect of computational linguistics , include , but not limit to : pragmatic , discourse , semantics , syntax and the lexicon ; phonetics , phonology and morphology ; interpret and generate speak and write language ; linguistic , mathematical and psychological model of language ; language-orient information retrieval and information extraction ; corpus-base language model ; machine translation and translation aid ; natural language interface and dialogue system ; approach to coordinate the linguistic with other modality in multi-medium system ; message and narrative understand system . paper submit to the thematic session be more narrowly target at specific topic . the complete list of thematic session be as follow ; further information about each can be find at the indicate url . d1 : dialogue management in interactive spoken dialogue system chair : diane litman and marilyn walker motivation : the advent of real-time interactive speak dialogue system pose special challenge for dialogue management . topic : evaluation , dialogue strategy , repair , system integration , learn / optimize system behavior , corpus analysis , robust process , and the requirement dialogue place on generation , speech recognition and synthesis . http : / / www . research . att . com / ~ diane / acl99 - theme . html d2 : discourse tagge : use , result and application chair : marilyn walker , julium hirschberg and owen rambow motivation : empirical approach to discourse process often rely on tag text or dialogue with discourse tag from a wide range of tag set . topic : discourse tag for train or test model of discourse structure , reference , translation , speech act , topic identification , and speech recognition . http : / / www . research . att . com / ~ walker / dtag-acl 99 . html d3 : corpus - base approach to discourse and dialogue chair : nancy ide this theme treat corpus-base work on any aspect of discourse and dialogue analysis , include co-reference , segmentation , discourse structure , parse , generation , etc . , especially in the light of relevance to practical application . http : / / www . c . vassar . edu / ~ ide / call / acl99 - discourse . html d4 : lexicon and discourse : connection through structure and semantic chair : laurence danlo , alistair knott , and bonnie webber motivation : with the lexicon become a central resource for compute property of the sentence , one may consider similar gain for compute property of discourse . topic : lexical semantics of discourse connective and focus particle , discourse and lexical interpretation , lexicalize grammar for discourse . http : / / www . cogscus . ed . ac . uk / ~ alik / acltheme . html i1 : nlp technique for cross - language information retrieval chair : dougla oard motivation : system that use query or example in one natural language to find text or speech in another be become increasingly important . topic : nlp technique for query translation , cognate match and interlingual match technique , cross-language gist use summarization or gloss translation . http : / / www . cli . umd . edu / conference / acl99clir / i2 : explore the limit of shallow parse chair : gregory grefenstette shallow parse technique provide a partial analysis of the syntactic structure . theme cover research into : quantify identifiable linguistic phenomenon in a corpus ; evaluate accuracy of dependency relation extract by shallow parser ; approximation of full parse with shallow parser . http : / / www . xrce . xerox . com / research / mltt / dmhead / acl99 i3 : information extraction from spoken language data chair : lynette hirschman and david palmer motivation : identify relevant syntactic and semantic item ( such as name , date , and event ) in speech datum require robust process of misspelling , transcription error , tokenization ambiguity and disfluency . topic : algorithm , architecture , and evaluation technique for noisy datum information extraction http : / / raven . bu . edu / conference / acl-ie99 / i4 : natural language process for interactive information retrieval chair : hinrich sch | tze this theme solicit papers that use nlp to enable better interactive information retrieval . example include query analysis , disambiguation , and classification of query into semantic hierarchy , but we be especially interest in novel idea . ftp : / / parcftp . xerox . com / pub / qca / schuetze / acl99 . html i5 : robust sentence - level interpretation chair : carolyn penstein rose and alon lavie in contrast to information extraction and shallow parse technique , in this session we focus on robust approach to full sentence interpretation , with an emphasis on empirical evaluation . topic : pre-parse repair , robust parse , post-parse repair , and user interaction . http : / / www . pitt . edu / ~ rosecp / topic . html i6 : topic detection chair : jame allan and bruce croft we examine discover structure and theme across many text : find the topic that underlie the text . it include summarization , theme extraction , tdt detection , concept extraction , high-quality cluster , and relate evaluation . http : / / ciir . c . umass . edu / acl99 l1 : parse of inflective , agglutinative and / or free word order language chair : jan hajic parse of language display non-analytical , non-fix word order behavior to a large extent pose specific problem which be expect to be address . all aspect of deal with such problem be welcome , include morphological , syntactic and semantic process . http : / / ufal . m . mff . cunus . cz l2 : mt / nlp for language of low diffusion chair : doug jone and boyan onyshkevych motivation : adequate large-scale mt or other nlp system do not exist for the bulk of the world 's language , nor be there significant on-line resource for them . topic : how to build large-scale mt / nlp system and resource for these other language ; how to leverage minimal resource ( include native language expertise ) l3 : word segmentation and lexical acquisition in asian language chair : masaakus naga motivation : exchange idea and experience on word segmentation among asian researcher as well as between asian and western researcher . topic : theory and application of tokenization and dictionary construction technique for language that do not put space between word , such as chinese , japanese , and thaus . http : / / www . milab . be . tsukuba . ac . jp / word-seg - acl99 m1 : automate analysis and evaluation of free text chair : jill burstein and claudium leacock motivation : to bring together researcher who be interest in the evaluation of essay and other free text for purpose of assessment and instruction . topic : identification and analysis of textual feature ; generation of feedback to author ; evaluation of system result . http : / / www . et . org / research / acl99 . html m2 : the use of large - coverage lexical resource for tagge and parse chair : max silberztein motivation : to present dictionary-base project and result whose start point be either machine readable dictionary , raw list or large corpus topic : large-coverage lexical resource , construction of dictionary , corpus process http : / / www . ladl . jussieu . fr / conf / acl99 / acl99 . html m3 : prosody model in nlg / speech generation chair : elke teich and sandra william motivation : integrate natural language generation and speech synthesis . topic : reconcile syntactic , semantic and prosodic representation ; determination of intonation focus and contour accord to context ; adaptation of nlg architecture for speech generation . http : / / www . mrus . mq . edu . au / ~ swilliam / acl99theme / m4 : design , implementation , and use of control language chair : tony hartley and cecile pari motivation : control language be increasingly use to enhance readability , facilitate automatic process of document , and guide input to generation system . important concern be the development and enforcement of control language . topic : author environment , design principle , corpus analysis , control language application . http : / / www . itrus . brighton . ac . uk / event / acl99 / clang . html m5 : computational psycholinguistic chair : philip resnik motivation : discuss empirical and theoretical study on psychologically motivate computational model of human language process , as oppose to nlp application , emphasize non-introspective datum , statistical method , and the relationship between linguistic competence and performance . topic : computational study involve process such as lexical access , parse , interpretation , generation , disambiguation , acquisition . http : / / umiac . umd . edu / ~ resnik / acl99 _ cpl / before submit a paper to a thematic session , you should read the information about each of these theme provide on the separate web page . dure the conference itself , some session may be video-tap . presenter will be alert to this possibility and will be able to request that the camera be turn off during their presentation . 1 . 2 requirement requirement be the same regardless of whether your be submit a paper to the general session or the thematic session ; see the separate call for student paper for information on requirement for papers submit to the student session . paper should describe original work ; they should emphasize complete work rather than intend work and they should indicate clearly the state of completion of the report result . wherever appropriate , concrete evaluation result should be include . a paper accept for presentation at the acl meet cannot be present or have be present at any other meet with publicly available publish proceedings . paper that be be submit to other conference must indicate this on the title page . 1 . 3 format for submission the format of submission be the same regardless of whether your be submit a paper to the general session or the thematic session ; see the separate call for student paper for information on requirement for papers submit to the student session . author should submit preliminary version of their papers for review , not to exceed 3200 word ( exclusive of reference ) . paper should be head by a title page contain the paper id code ( see below ) , the name of all author , the title , a short ( 5 line ) summary , up to five keyword specify the subject area ( for the general session ) or an indication of the thematic session to which the paper be be submit , the word count ( exclude figure and bibliography ) and a notice of multiple submission , if require . paper outside the specify length and / or without an id code be liable to rejection without review . to identify each paper , an id code must be acquire by file an electronic paper registration form , available on the web at http : / / www . mrus . mq . edu . au / conf / acl99 / register . html : on successful completion of this form an id code will be send to the designate author by e-mail . if you cannot access the electronic paper registration form , send email to acl99 @ mrus . mq . edu . au with subject idform for an automatic reply . to assist in the referee process , we would be very grateful if author prepare a web-browsable ( e . g . html , postscript , pdf ) electronic version of their papers . the electronic paper registration form contain a field where you can provide this information . we strongly recommend the use of acl - standard latex ( plus bibstyle and trivial example ) or word style file for the preparation of submission . these style include a place for the require information such as id code and word count , and allow for a graceful transition to the style require for publication . these file be available from the conference web site at http : / / www . mrus . mq . edu . au / conf / acl99 . if you cannot use the acl - standard style directly , a description of the require format be at http : / / www . mrus . mq . edu . au / conf / acl99 / style / substyle . html . if you cannot access this web page , send email to acl99 @ mrus . mq . edu . au with subject substyle for an automatic reply . 1 . 4 submission and review procedure the submission procedure be the same regardless of whether your be submit a paper to the general session or the thematic session ; see the separate call for student paper for information on submission detail for papers submit to the student session . four ( 4 ) paper copy of each paper ( print on both side of the page if possible ) should be submit to the follow address : acl programme committee c / o ken church at&t lab - research 180 park ave , office d235 po box 971 florham park nj 07932-0971 usa enquiry can be address to the programme committee by email at acl99 @ mrus . mq . edu . au ( robert dale , chair and ken church , co - chair ) . in extreme case , if you cannot make contact electronically you can reach us by send a fax , clearly mark " acl programme committee " , to + 61 2 9850 9529 . this fax number be for information enquiry only . please note that faxed submissions of papers are not acceptable . review of papers submit to the general session will , as in previous year , be manage by an international conference programme committee consist of area chair , each of whom will have the assistance of a team of reviewer . review of papers for the thematic session will be manage by the chair of the thematic session , with the assistance of team of reviewer ; final decision on the technical programme content ( both general session and thematic session ) will be make by the programme committee . 1 . 5 schedule submission must be receive by january 25th 1999 . leat submission ( those arrive on or after january 26th 1999 ) will be return unopen . acknowledgement will be email soon after receipt . notification of acceptance will be send to author ( by email ) on march 22nd 1999 . camera - ready copy of final papers prepare in a double-column format , preferably use a laser printer , must be receive by may 3rd 1999 , along with a sign copyright release statement . detail format guideline will be provide to author with their acceptance notice . the paper session , include general , theme and student papers , will take place on june 23rd - - 26th 1999 . 2 . student session there will again be special student session organize by a committee of acl graduate student member . acl student member be invite to submit short papers on any of the topic list above for the general session . the papers will be review by a committee of student and faculty member for presentation in workshop-style session and publication in a special section of the conference proceedings . a separate call for paper for the student session be be issue and be available at http : / / www . c . utoronto . ca / ~ melanie / acl99 / . 3 . tutorial the meet will include a programme of tutorial on june 20th 1999 immediately precede the workshop and technical session , and at the same venue as the conference . a separate call for tutorial proposal be be issue and be available at http : / / www . bell-lab . com / project / tt / acl99tut . html . 4 . workshop as in other year , acl ' 99 will be accompany by a number of workshop . these will be hold on june 21st - - 22nd 1999 , immediately after the tutorial and before the technical session . the acl have a policy on workshop . a separate call for workshop proposal will be issue soon . 5 . demo a separate call for demo proposal will be issue at a later date . 6 . venue and local organisation the conference will be hold at the university of maryland from 20th through 26th june , 1999 . the local arrangement committee be chair by bonnie dorr ; see http : / / www . umiac . umd . edu / research / clip / acl99 / index . html for local arrangement information . 7 . timetable the date here pertain only to the general session and thematic session : see the separate call for student session paper , tutorial proposal and workshop for the timetable associate with those element of the conference . paper submission deadline : january 25 , 1999 notification of acceptance : march 22 , 1999 camera ready papers due : may 3 , 1999 acl ' 99 conference : june 20 - - 26 , 1999
