Subject: book review ( cheng ) : on the typology of wh - question

cheng , lisa laus - shen . ( 1997 ) . on the typology of wh - question . outstand dissertation in linguistic sery . garland publish , new york & london . 210 page . review by kerstin hoge , university of oxford introduction this book ( originally write as the author 's 1991 ph . d . dissertation ) attempt to account for the full range of cross-linguistic variation find with single and multiple wh-question . to this aim , cheng propose the clausal type hypothesis which postulate a parameter that identification ( or ' type ' ) of a sentence as a wh-question be achieve either by a question particle or by overt wh-movement . the first part of the book ( chapter 2 and 3 ) discuss the clausal type hypothesis and its prediction and implication for the analysis of wh-in - situ language , single movement language , optional movement language and multiple front language . data from multiple front language lead cheng to an investigation of the interpretation and inherent property of wh-word in a number of language . this mark the transition to the second part of the book ( chapter 4 and 5 ) which shift the focus to wh-word and quantificational phenomenon in mandarin chinese . cheng 's book provide an extensive overview of the difference exhibit across language with respect to wh-question formation and present an interest attempt to unify two previously separate approach to wh-movement in argue that both property of c and of the wh-word themselve be responsible for the observe typological distinction . synopsis chapter 1 present the general aim and outline of the book and briefly introduce the phrase structure of mandarin chinese , which feature prominently in the book as an example of a wh-in - situ language . chapter 2 introduce the clausal type hypothesis . cheng observe that language which allow for wh-in - situ in single question invariably use overt marking ( such as particle ) in matrix yes-no question . if a language have an overt yes-no question particle , it will also have a wh-question particle , which may but need not be overt . question particle and overt wh-movement , both of which identify a clause as an interrogative , be thus mutually exclusive . to account for this generalisation , cheng propose that clause be type at s - structure either by a wh-particle or by overt wh-movement but crucially not by both in one language , cf . ( 1 ) . ( 1 ) clausal type hypothesis every clause need to be type . in the case of type a wh-question , either a wh-particle in c be use or else front of a wh-word to the spec of c be use , thereby type a clause through c by spec - head agreement . ( = cheng 1997 : 22 , ( 9 ) ) the two available strategy be illustrate by mandarin chinese and english , respectively . mandarin chinese satisfy clausal type by base-generate a wh-particle in c . consequently , all wh-phrase will stay in-situ . overt wh-movement be rule out by the principle of economy of derivation ( chomsky 1989 ) , accord to which movement be more costly than merge , a ' last resort ' operation and applicable only when clausal type could not be achieve otherwise . at lf , wh-phrase move to speccp for scope , selection and absorption purpose . english use overt wh-movement to satisfy clausal type , i . e . c acquire the [ + wh ] - feature of the xp in its specifier . the clausal type hypothesis further require cheng to make the follow assumption with respect to english : ( i ) subject wh-phrase must undergo overt movement ( contra the vacuous movement hypothesis ) , ( ius ) no q - morpheme or [ + wh ] - feature be base-generate in c , and ( iius ) ' whether ' and ' if ' be not question particle . chapter 3 discuss optional and multiple wh-front language which present a challenge to the clausal type hypothesis . optional front language appear to use both mode of clausal type , i . e . they allow for wh-front although they have a wh-particle ( give the possibility of wh-in - situ ) . using egyptian arabic , bahasa indonesium and palauan as language of investigation , cheng argue that question with front wh-phrase in optional front language do not instantiate overt wh-movement but display clear similarity to cleave and topicalisation structure . thus , a ' front ' wh-argument be base-generate as the subject of a reduce cleave construction , while a front wh-adjunct have undergo topicalisation . optional front language be then straightforward in-situ language which satisfy clausal type by base-generate a wh-particle in ( matrix ) c . multiple front language appear to violate the principle of economy of derivation in that all wh-phrase must move at s - structure although clausal type be satisfy by single wh-movement . extend nishigauchus 's ( 1990 ) analysis of japanese wh-word , cheng suggest that bare wh-word in multiple front language be similar to indefinite , i . e . they lack inherent quantificational force and simply introduce variable into the semantic representation which must be bind by other element in the sentence . it be thus not surprise that the interpretation of a wh-word in a multiple front language can vary with its context . for example , polish wh-word be interpret as interrogative when front , receive a d ( iscourse ) - link read when in-situ , be use as polarity item in yes-no question and conditional sentence , and form the morphological base of indefinite , fill out the whole paradigm of person , place and time . cheng now argue that the four different reading arise because there be four different binder which determine the quantificational force of the bare wh-word ( wh ) in these context , as schematise in ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) binder ( and reading ) of polish wh - word : a . wh be bind by an overt d ( eterminer ) ( existential read ) b . wh be bind by a null d with interrogative force ( interrogative read ) c . wh be bind by existential closure ( polarity read ) d . wh be bind by a [ + wh ] c ( d - link read ) null determiner which contribute interrogative quantificational force need to be license and identify by feature match with a [ + wh ] c at s - structure . it be thus to satisfy the license requirement of the null determiner that all wh-phrase in multiple front language move to a position govern by c . the chapter also contain a discussion of rudin 's ( 1988 ) proposal to distinguish between multiple front language which allow for multiply fill speccp ( e . g . bulgarian , romanian ) and those where speccp can host only one wh-phrase and all other wh-phrase be ip - adjoin ( e . g . polish , czech ) . here , cheng propose to replace rudin 's ecp - style account of superiority effect with an analysis that derive them from the 's hortest movement ' condition , so as to account for the observe [ subject + adjunct ] and [ object + adjunct ] ordering of wh-phrase in the bulgarian - type language . moreover , she suggest analyse ip - adjunction as q ( uantifier ) r ( aise ) and thus as clausebound , thereby rule out multiple wh-extraction from embed clause in polish - type language . in chapter 4 cheng examine wh-word in mandarin chinese and analysis them as polarity item which require both a trigger and a binder for interpretation , cf . ( 3 ) . ( 3 ) wh - word in mandarin chinese read trigger binder - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - interrogative wh-particle wh-particle ( unselective binder ) polarity yes-no particle / existential closure negation ( unselective binder ) universal dou ' all ' dou ' all ' ( selective binder ) thus , when a wh-word be interpret as an interrogative , it be license by a wh-particle which will also bind it and contribute interrogative force to it . the polarity read be trigger by a yes-no particle or negation , and the binder of the wh-word be introduce by existential closure which will apply to the element inside vp . it follow that wh-word in affective context cannot occur in subject position ( specaspp ) as this position be external to vp and therefore not in the scope of existential closure . cheng further argue that all indefinite in mandarin chinese lack inherent quantificational force and must be bind by existential closure . this have the consequence that indefinite cannot occur in subject position unless the aspp be the complement of a modal ( you ' have ' ) which can act as a binder for the indefinite subject . the second half of chapter 4 be take up with a discussion of the universal quantifier dou ' all ' , which cheng analysis as a quantificational adverb which be base-generate as an asp ' - or v ' - adjunct . at lf , the distributor dou adjoin to its associate . this movement be clause-bound and leave a trace which must be antecedent-govern . dou be a selective binder and can only license one np at a time , move to the closest element which can use a trigger . chapter 5 deal with multiple quantification and interaction between wh - and quantifier phrase in mandarin chinese and english . in mandarin chinese scope relation between quantify phrase alway reflect their surface order . cheng explain this lack of scope ambiguity as result from the fact that neither indefinite nor universally quantify phrase undergo qr . the interpretation of question which contain universally quantify phrase ( meus - nps ) appear to be sensitive to the presence of the quantificational adverb dou ' all ' . wherea question which contain a meus - np without dou only have an individual read , question with a meus - np which be license by dou allow for both an individual and a pair-list read , cf . ( 4 ) . ( 4 ) mei-ge - ren dou mai-le shenme every - cl - person all buy-asp what ' what do everyone buy ? ' a . what be the thing such that everyone buy ? b . for every x , what be the thing that x buy ? ( = cheng 1997 : 161 , ( 31 ) ) the ambiguity do , however , not result from different scope relation . rather , cheng argue , the pair-list read be due to a distributive read of meus - np which be create by its association with the distributor dou . scope reconstruction ( frampton 1990 ) of the wh-phrase to the site of its intermediate ( vp - adjoin ) trace ( which cheng adopt in her analysis of english wh-quantifier interaction ) be not possible in ( 4 ) because dou create a barrier and the intermediate trace therefore delete at lf . cheng 's analysis of wh-quantifier interaction in mandarin chinese rest on the assumption that wh-phrase move at lf . she discuss both argument in favour of lf - movement and aoun and li 's ( 1993 ) claim that in-situ wh-phrase do not move at lf since they can be modify by ' only ' which need to be associate with an overt element in its c-command domain . cheng argue that wh-phrase which be modify by ' only ' must have a d - link interpretation and do therefore not constitute evidence against lf - movement . she further note reinhart 's ( 1990 ) observation that d - link wh-phrase have to move to be properly interpret and suggest that such movement take place at a post - lf level . the chapter conclude with a discussion of the land site of lf - movement which cheng identify as speccp ( contra mahajan 1990 ) . comment cheng 's book occupy a place which mark the onset of the minimalist approach to syntactic theory . while she assume the barrier framework of chomsky ( 1986 ) and use a disjunctive ecp to derive locality condition on dou and the lack of scope reconstruction in wh-quantifier interaction , the principle of economy of derivation be central to her argumentation . not only do it prohibit a language from use both strategy for clausal type , it also account for superiority effect in bulgarian ( by force movement of the closest wh-phrase to occur first ) , and preclude lf - lower of indefinite subject in mandarin chinese ( since there be an alternative derivation which generate a structure with a modal binder ) . moreover , it rule out multiple wh-movement for clausal type and thus require cheng to account for multiple front language as result from a license requirement of the wh-word . as see earlier , multiple front be show to correlate with the ability of the wh-word to form the morphological base of indefinite nps . however , it appear that not all language that have indefinite which be derive from wh-word display multiple front . german prefix a wh-word with irgend - 's ome ' to form an indefinite , fill out the whole paradigm of person , place and time , as see in ( 5 ) . ( 5 ) german wer ' who ' irgendwer 's omeone ' wo ' where ' irgendwo 's omewhere ' wann ' when ' irgendwann 's ometime ' be ' what ' irgendwa 's omethe ' moreover , a bare wh-expression can be use as a polarity item in yes-no question and conditional , e . g . ( 6 ) - ( 7 ) . ( 6 ) hast du wen angerufen ? have you whom call ' did you call anybody ? ' ( 7 ) wenn du wen anrufen willst , musst du mir bescheid sagen . if you whom call want , must you me let-know ' if you want to call anybody , you must let me know . ' the morphological form and possible reading of german wh-word thus mirror the situation find with polish wh-word , as describe by cheng . german and polish also have in common that neither language have a question particle ( under cheng 's analysis ) and that they must therefore use overt wh-movement for clausal type . however , wherea polish fulfil cheng 's prediction and front all wh-phrase in multiple question , german can only move one wh-word to clause-initial position , cf ( 8 ) . ( 8 ) a . wer hat wen angerufen ? who have whom call ' who call whom ? ' b . * wer wen hat angerufen ? who whom have call yiddish present the reverse problem in that it allow for multiple wh-movement but do not derive its indefinite from the wh-word in a morphologically transparent way , cf . ( 9 ) . ( 9 ) ver ' who ' emetser 's omeone ' vu ' where ' erget ( vu ) 's omewhere ' ven ' when ' a mol 's ometime ' vo ' what ' epe 's omethe ' to make thing worse , multiple front be optional in yiddish . wh - phrase can stay in-situ without necessarily have a d - link read , cf . ( 10 ) . ( 10 ) a . ver veman hot ongeklungen ? who whom have call ' who call whom ? ' b . ver hot ongeklungen veman ? who have call whom ' who call whom ? ' german and yiddish thus appear to be direct counterexample to cheng 's analysis of multiple front language . note also in this context that french , often cite as an example of an optional movement language , fall outside cheng 's analysis . as acknowledge in the book ( 1997 : 39 , fn 4 ) , french do not have a question particle and be therefore not an in-situ language . nevertheless it allow for wh-word to remain in-situ in single matrix question . it may be possible to account for optional wh-movement in french by postulate that french possess both a non-overt yes-no particle and a non-overt wh-particle . french would then satisfy clausal type by base-generate a wh-particle in c and all wh-phrase could stay in-situ . movement of a wh-phrase to clause-initial position could be due to another attractor , such as focus , which be not obligatorily present . whatever appeal such an analysis may hold , it point to the problem of allow for non-overt question particle . while we do not expect to find overt wh-particle in language without yes-no particle , what will stop us from assume that a language which allow a wh-word to stay in-situ have a question particle even when there be no ( phonologically ) overt evidence for such a claim ? cheng 's proposal to relate wh-in - situ to the availability of non-overt wh-particle may thus ultimately turn out to be too permissive a theory . another problem arise with cheng 's approach to superiority effect in bulgarian - type language . as note , cheng explain superiority effect as violation of the principle of economy of derivation . given that " adverb be in the most embed position " ( 1997 : 81 ) , [ adjunct + argument ] ordering be rule out because movement of the argument be a shorter movement and must therefore take place before the adjunct move to speccp . however , as observe by boskovic ( 1997 ) , bulgarian question contain more than two front wh-phrase display superiority effect only with respect to the topmost wh-phrase , the other be freely order , contrary to the prediction make by cheng 's approach . these comment aside , cheng 's book be to be commend . it be an extremely well write and clearly present work which should be fully comprehensible even to reader who be not familiar with the literature on mandarin chinese syntax or heim 's ( 1982 ) theory of indefinite . the book be ambitious in its scope , discuss a wide range of language , and have undoubtedly make an important contribution to the study of wh-movement . reference aoun , j . and a . li . ( 1993 ) . wh - element in situ : syntax of lf ? linguistic inquiry 24 . 199-238 . boskovic , z . ( 1997 ) . on certain violation of the superiority condition , agro , and economy of derivation . journal of linguistic 33 . 227-254 . chomsky , n . ( 1986 ) . barrier . cambridge , mass . : mit press . chomsky , n . ( 1989 ) . some note on economy of derivation and representation . in mitwpl 10 : functional head and clause structure ( reprint in principle and parameter in comparative grammar , ed . by r . freidin , 417-454 . cambridge , mass . : mit press ) . frampton , j . ( 1990 ) . the fine structure of wh-movement and the proper formulation of the ecp . ms . , northeastern university . heim , i . ( 1982 ) . the semantic of definite and indefinite noun phrase . ph . d . dissertation , university of massachusett , amherst . mahajan , a . ( 1990 ) . the a / a - bar distinction and movement theory . ph . d . dissertation , mit . nishigauchus , t . ( 1990 ) . quantification in the theory of grammar . dordrecht : kluwer . reinhart , t . ( 1990 ) . interpret wh-in - situ . ms . rudin , c . ( 1988 ) . on multiple question and multiple wh front . natural language and linguistic theory 6 . 445-502 . kerstin hoge be a d . phil . student in linguistics at the university of oxford . her research interest include syntactic theory and yiddish .
