Subject: computational linguistic

acl ' 99 student session call for paper 37th annual meet of the association for computational linguistic 20 - - 26 june , 1999 university of maryland [ you may find it easier to read this information on the web at http : / / www . c . utoronto . ca / ~ melanie / acl99 / ] 1 . purpose the goal of the student session be to provide a forum for student member to present _ work in progress _ and receive feedback from other member of the computational linguistics community . the session will consist of paper presentation by student author . the number of papers accept be contingent on the quality of the submission and the availability of presentation time during the conference , but the student session will be at least half a day . the accept papers will be publish in a special section of the conference proceedings . note that the student session and the main conference session be independent ; student be free to submit to either session , and each submission will be evaluate independently and with respect to the criterion set out by the respective organize committee . 2 . requirement paper should describe original , unpublish work that be in progress and demonstrate insight , creativity , and promise . topic of interest be the same as for the main conference or the thematic session . 2 . 1 submission restriction due to difference in format requirement , papers submit to the main conference _ cannot _ be consider for the student session . student may , of course , submit different papers to the main conference and the student session , or papers on different aspect of a particular problem or project . note that for papers present join work , _ all _ co-author must be student . paper may be submit to other conference , but this must be clearly indicate on the cover page . the official language of the conference be english , and hence student papers should be write in english . 2 . 2 length the maximum allowable length be 3 page ( about 1800 word ) , include reference . 2 . 3 format of submission submission package should consist of a title page , follow by the paper . the title page should contain : o the paper 's title ; o the name and affiliation of the author ( s ) ; o a complete address for each author ; o an abstract ; o a designation of the topic area ( s ) ( one or two ) ; o a statement about submission to other conference ( e . g . , ' none ' or a list ) ; and o the paper id code ( see below ) . we recommend that if the student author plan to apply for travel grant , that they include the application form ( please see " travel grant " ) with their paper submission . 2 . 4 electronic submission code to identify each paper , an id code _ must _ be acquire by file an electronic paper registration form ( http : / / www . mrus . mq . edu . au / conf / acl99 / register . html ) ; upon successful completion of this form , an id code will be send to the designate author by e-mail . if you cannot access the electronic paper registration form , send email to acl99 @ mrus . mq . edu . au with subject idform for an automatic reply . 2 . 5 medium of submission author must submit their papers electronically . only in unusual case will hard copy submission be allow . electronic submission should be either self-contain latex source , postscript , or pdf ( we encourage latex submission ) . postscript submission must use a standard font . latex submission should not refer to any other external file or style except for the standard style for tex 3 . 14 and latex 2 . 09 . the bibliography for a latex submission cannot be submit as separate . bib file ; the actual bibliography entry must be insert in the submit latex source file . we strongly recommend the use of acl - standard latex or word style file for the preparation of submission ( please note that while we do not accept word - format file for electronic submission , postscript file produce from them be acceptable ) . these style include a place for the require information such as id code and word count , and allow for a graceful transition to the style require for publication . these file be available from the main conference web site at http : / / www . mrus . mq . edu . au / conf / acl99 . if you cannot use the acl - standard style directly , a description of the require format be at http : / / www . mrus . mq . edu . au / conf / acl99 / style / substyle . html . if you cannot access this web page , send email to acl99 @ mrus . mq . edu . au with subject substyle for an automatic reply . 2 . 6 blind review since review will be ` blind ' , the head of the paper should omit author name and address ( this information will be inlcude in the title page ) . self - reference that reveal the author ' identity ( e . g . , " we previously show ( smith , 1991 ) . . . " ) should be avoid . instead , use reference in a neutral form ( e . g . , " smith previously show ( 1991 ) . . . " ) . furthermore , avoid obvious giveaway in the bibliography such as listing for unpublish in-house technical report . 2 . 7 caveat paper outside the specify length and / or without an id code be liable to rejection without review . 2 . 8 question ? enquiry to the co-chair of the student session should be send to acl99 - student @ c . utoronto . ca . 3 . travel grant please see the student session web page for information about available travel grant ( http : / / c . utoronto . c / ~ melanie / acl / ) . 4 . schedule submission must be receive by 8 february 1999 . leat submission ( those arrive on or after 9 february 1999 ) will not be consider . acknowledgment will be email soon after receipt . notification of acceptance will be send to author ( by email ) by 29 march 1999 . camera - ready copy of final papers must be receive by 3 may 1999 , along with a sign copyright release statement . detail format guideline will be provide to author with their acceptance notice . the student paper session will take place during the main conference on june 23 - - 26 , 1999 .
