Subject: review : cook : case grammar apply

walter a . cook . s . j . ( 1998 ) " case grammar apply " a publication of the summer institute of linguistic and the university of texa at arlington , 1998 , 271 page review by tanium avgustinova , university of saarland . synopsis the book be intend as a companion volume to " case grammar theory " ( 1989 ) by the same author , and be devote to the application of the model develop in this earlier publication to english text analysis . this in particular means that the main stress of the present work be on methodological issue , which be present on an extend textual analysis of hamingway 's " the old man and the sea " . the actual goal of the discuss monograph be twofold : for the grammar - to present a method for sentence semantics which describe the mean underlie each simple sentence ; for the lexicon - to present a method for further define each sense of each verb / predicate in term of semantic class ( case-frame - base typology ) . each clause in its underlie structure be reduce to a kernel sentence which be define as a simple complete active-voice affirmative statement . all text be reduce to a sequence of kernel sentence the model use be the case grammar matrix model . it present a clear predicate-argument structure , build a lexicon which distinguish various verb senses , and not only describe argument occur in the text , but through covert role , describe implicit argument . this model be supplement by the use of conceptual graph , follow sowa ( 1984 ) . each verb type have a generalise conceptual graph to indicate the predicate-argument structure ; and each example in the text contain the canonical graph of that sentence use the verb and noun as concept , and case label as the verb-to - noun relation . the book be organise in the follow way . chapter 1 ( pp . 1-54 ) present the case grammar matrix model in summary form and introduce conceptual graph representation . the next four chapter treat verb / predicate in four distinguish semantic domain . chapter 2 ( pp . 55-90 ) deal with the basic domain that include all state , process , and action verb which use only the agent and object case . chapter 3 ( pp . 91-126 ) deal with the experiential domain , the domain of sensation , emotion , cognition , and communication . it involve state , process , and action verb which include an experiencer case in their description . chapter 4 ( pp . 127-42 ) deal with the benefactive domain , the domain of possession and transfer of property , and describe state , process , and action verb that include a benefactive case . chapter 5 ( pp . 143-82 ) deal with the locative domain , the domain of physical location and movement , and describe state , process , and action verb that include a locative case . chapter 6 ( pp . 182-220 ) deal with other element involve in the logical representation of sentence , include tense , aspect , modal , performative , and negative , show how these element may be include in the logical structure , and end with a sample sentence parse use case grammar . chapter 7 ( pp . 221-46 ) summarise the analysis of more than 500 example in chapter 2 through 5 and demonstrate the verbal hierarchy express by the twelve cell of the case grammar matrix , organise by verbal domain , verb type , and argument structure . each of the verb type be describe together with its conceptual graph , its frequency of occurrence , its subtype , and its define characteristic . the appendix to the text contain an alphabetical lexicon , list all of the verb / predicate in the example together with their case frame ( pp . 247-52 ) , and a case lexicon , with the verb sort by case frame together with reference for each verb to the page where the use of the verb be exemplify ( pp . 253-60 ) . finally , there be a list of reference ( pp . 261 - 6 ) , and an index ( pp . 267-71 ) . critical evaluation case grammar ( cg ) work with label predicate-argument structure , and thus , in its core , belong to the dependency grammar paradigm . cg develop a semantic valence system that describe the logical form of a sentence in term of a central predicate ( usually and typically a lexical verb , but also a predicate adjective , a predicate noun , or a predicate adverb ) and a series of case-label argument ( nominal , adverbial ) require by the mean of that predicate . so , the type of case consider in the book be ' govern case ' , and in fact , nothing be say about the way cg model would treat ' concordial case ' - cf . , e . g . , blake ( 1994 ) for a detail discussion of these notion . there be no case concord in english and , hence , the challenge posit by ' concordial case ' be trivially out of the scope of the present analysis ( which be base exclusively on english datum ) . the ambition of the proponent of cg be to develop a semantic interpretation system that be universal across language , and not tie to the syntax of any particular sentence . on the basis of the present extensive datum analysis it be claim that the five case label use in the work ( i . e . agent , object , experiencer , benefactive , and locative ) be necessary and sufficient for the description of all the verb / predicate in the language ( in this case english ) . the possibility of create different list of case be leave open , whereby full translatability be theoretically expect between any consistent list of case and the one employ in the cg matrix model . both the predicate and its argument be view as concept ( i . e . the conceptual universe be make up of verb which describe state or event , and noun which describe thing ) , while the case role label indicate relation ( which argument bear to their predicate ) . cg be write in conceptual graph format by place the concept ( predicate , argument ) in box and relation ( case role ) in circle . the arrow in the notation point away from the predicate which be the source of the case relation . an advantage of such an approach be the possibility of define the default position of the lexical predicate in its case frame , i . e . with respect to the argument it govern . in the discuss book , a fairly credible ontology of predicator be achieve by hierarchically sort them accord to domain as basic , experiential , benefactive , locative , ( and possibly ) time , and within each domain as state , process , action . further sub-classification of the predicate be base on the number or the position of the argument . the result hierarchical taxonomy be similar to a thesaurus in which all entity be organise into semantic domain . the organisation of the semantic domain be work out in detail and with precision . the question of case inventory be central to cg , as well as to any theory work with the notion of case . also methodologically , a clear distinction must be make between essential case , which be require by the mean of the predicate , and modal case , which be mainly adverbial adjunct . only essential case can be use for describe predicate . despite of the lack of universal agreement on the number of case role label or the way in which they be define , the author give a clear step-by step method , accompany by various concrete test , how to simplify in practice the case assignment . thus , the label be defer until three basic question be answer : how many argument be require by the verb ? what verb type - state , process , or action - be in the structure ? to what semantic domain do the verb belong ? then , the name of the argument can be simplify by a set of principle , in combination with a set of tactic for the formation of case frame . within case frame , case be list left-to - right accord to a subject choice hierarchy ( agent - experiencer - benefactive - object - locative ) which be merely a generalisation cover the unmark choice . mark choice which violate the subject choice hierarchy be indicate in the lexicon by change the order of case in the case frame . possible variation involve " equative " ( in copular construction ) , regard in this model as double - object frame in the basic domain , and rank shift in the subject choice hierarchy . in the lexicon , predicator be classify accord to case frame . the case frame be understand as a configuration of one to three case that be require by the mean of the verb ( or more generally , the predicate ) . let us remind , however , that , in lexical semantics research , case be know where the frame would contain up to five slot . a famous example be the verb ' to rend ' ( russian : arendovat ' - cf . apresjan ( 1974 ) p . 134 ) involve the follow argument : ( 1 ) who , ( 2 ) what , ( 3 ) from whom , ( 4 ) for how much , ( 5 ) for how long . special attention be devote to the possibility of lexicon organisation in term of derivation intend both to represent linguistic generalisation and to simplify the lexicon ( section 1 . 13 - 1 . 15 ) . however , the method follow in the work be list each item separately and supplement the lexicon with redundancy rule that relate these lexical entry to each other . also , each sense of each predicate be treat as a separate item with its own case frame . in order to set the guideline for apply cg textual analysis , a concise introduction to the principle of lexical decomposition and to the interpretation of covert case role be give . lexical decomposition be understand as the process of analyse predicate as consist of more basic atomic predicate . with some sentence this be unavoidable for determine the actual predicate-argument structure . covert case role , which be require by the mean of the predicate , be sometime ( as in the case of partially covert ( deletable ) case role ) or alway ( as in the case of totally covert ( coreferential and lexicalise ) case role ) miss in the surface structure . since the cg analysis advocate for in this book maintain the obligatory object hypothesis , covert role assume greater importance . in all case where the object role can be sometime delete , or can be coreferential with another role , or can be lexicalise into the predicate , a deeper analysis be need to find the obligatory object . certainly , the lexicalisation of the manifestation of propositional , essential role be of primary interest in the context of reveal the central predicate in a sentence . the assumption that a predicate , even with covert ( hide ) case role , have to be define in term of its full complement of case role require a clear distinction between deletable , coreferential and lexicalise role . the author offer in this respect not only theoretical background but also concrete test , procedure and instruction to guide and facilitate practical analysis . two methodological principle be postulate ensure that all conceptual relation flow from the central verb , and that deletable role be include in case description . a major asset of the book be , with no doubt , the extensive textual analysis perform with precision , consistency and conformity to the postulate principle and theoretical assumption . the limit of the approach be realistically recognise by the author , and be state explicitly in the appropriate place throughout the presentation . the reader will find a well-develop and detail ontology of predicate , which cover not only verb but also predicative adjective , predicative noun and predicative adverb . the most important linguistic phenomenon be consider in a systematic and easy-to - follow way . this make the book a valuable guide to a practical sentence analysis , as well as a useful reference material for research purpose and computer application . references apresjan , jurij d . 1974 : leksicheskaja semantika . sinonimicheskie sredstva jazyka . moskva : nauka blake , barry j . 1994 : case . cambridge textbook in linguistic . cook , walter a . , s . j . 1989 : case grammar theory . washington , d . c . : georgetown university press . sowa , john f . 1984 : conceptual graph : information process in mind and machine . read , mass . : addison - wesley . = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = tanium avgustinova , ph . d . computational linguistic , university of saarland postfach 151150 , 66041 saarbruecken , germany tanium @ coli . uni-sb . de , http : / / www . coli . uni-sb . de / ~ tanium / ( + 49 ) ( 681 ) 302 . 4504 ( phone ) ( + 49 ) ( 681 ) 302 4115 ( secretary ) ( + 49 ) ( 681 ) 302 . 4700 ( fax )
