Subject: linguistic form and social action , mdia vol . 13

the editorial staff of michigan discussion in anthropology , vol . 13 , be please to announce the publication of " linguistic form and social action " . with this issue of michigan discussion in anthropology we join linguistically orient anthropologist and anthropologically attune linguist who have , since the day of sapir and malinowskus , regard language as constitutive of culture . we believe , however , that although linguistic terminology have become part of our common critical language , too often it merely serve as metaphor . theorist may deploy it to explain macro cultural phenomenon but bypass the opportunity to examine linguistic form . in the past decade the call have come again to create a theoretical site encompass fine-grain linguistic analysis and the broader concern of cultural anthropology , in which grammar play a key role in structure social field . the papers in mdia volume 13 , contribute by junior and senior scholar with tie to the linguistic anthropology program at the university of michigan , explore this set of issue from a range of theoretical and methodological perspective . this volume be edit by graduate student affiliate with linguistic anthropology at the university of michigan . the program , establish by the department of anthropology in 1990 , emphasize the ethnographic analysis of language within the larger context of social theory . we seek to preserve the sense in which language be simultaneously a formal system and one which be pragmatically deploy . central to this mission be a belief that the core concern of cultural anthropology , increasingly involve the analysis of 'd iscourse , ' ' representation , ' and 's ocial action , ' must also integrate analysis of linguistic form . the papers in this volume integrate linguistic datum and ethnographic description and demonstrate rich microanalysis while attend to the larger cultural context and to history . while the article stand on their own as example of a new synthesis of approach to the study of linguistic form and social action , we also hope that as a whole this volume will provoke further discussion of the theory and practice of linguistically-orient anthropology and ethnographically-influence linguistics . for order information , please respond to this email , or visit : http : / / www-personal . umich . edu / ~ jherron / mdia13 . html contents " introduction " jennifer dickinson and mandana limbert " marry to dukha : discourse analysis of a newar woman 's narrative of suffer " laura kunreuther " the power of the drunk : humor and hegemony in china 's tibet " char makley " ritual language and social memory in a chinese secret swear brotherhood " jean debernardus " do you want to go forward ? turn back ! etymology as national defense in the ' new ' europe " penelope papailia " sound country in urbanize texa : private speech in public discourse " barbara johnstone " purity and power : the geography of language ideology in ukraine " laada bilaniuk " pearl on the string of the chinese nation : pronoun , plural , and prototype in talk about identity " susan blum " on the dialogic emergence of ' resistance ' : participation frame and collusion in a prison exit interview " jame herron " negotiate mean with the least ( collaborative ) effort " lesley milroy " time , not the syllable , must be count ' : quechua parallelism , word mean , and cultural analysis " bruce mannheim
