Subject: disc . sex / lang

a few remark in the discussion , and comment on / to newman , meunier the widespread " constructivist " concept of personality and sex role / language be seriously injure by what jane goodall have to say below . is my interpretation wrong that the preoccupation in feminist study with sex role / language , and the diffusion of that preoccupation into other corridor of the university , begin as an assault on " normativity " , i . e . , knee-jerk heteropartnership in the late 1960 ? we be attract to the opposite sex only because society teach this to us . thumb up to tolerance , real diversity , and cure the real ill of society by need of the individual not the group ; thumb down to intuitive scholarship , academic shamanism , and prescriptive gramma jane goodall , through a window , houghton mifflin company , boston , 1990 . " my thirty year with the chimpanzee of gombe . " ( p 118 ) one of the most important milestone in the life of a young male be when he begin to travel away from his mother with other member of the community . the sever of apron string be far more necessary for a young male than a young female . she can learn most of what she need to know for a successful adult life whilst remain in her family set . not only can she watch her mother and her mother 's friend care for their infant , but she can actually handle them herself , gain much of the experience which she will need later when she have a baby of her own . and she can learn , during her mother 's ` pink day ' , a good deal about sex and the demand that will subsequently be make of her in that sphere . the young male have different thing to learn . there be some aspect of community life that be primarily , though not entirely , male responsibility = adsuch as patrol , repell intruder , search out distant food source , and some kind of hunt . he cannot gain adequate experience in such matter if he remains with his mother . he must leave her and spend time with the male . = = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d = 3d michael newman provide some welcome reference in the literature that provide datum more specific for what we all know generally , that some term be semantically mark for gender - - marine , lumberjack , nurse . regard " he " - - it have bias for masculine interpretation - - no doubt about that for the current state of the language . in century before modern english , and into the modern english era , " he " be also a feminine pronoun . michael newman be " skeptical of pernicious influence of grammar on ot her aspect of cognition " , wherea lydie meunier say " " study in psychology have show that female read text write in a generic-he retain less information than when they read text use a generic plural " . newman go on to express accord with moulton 's " kleenex effect whereby the identity of a prestigious subset be assume by the superordinate category , with the result that people tend to think of the subset as more prototypical " . this sound like individual-for - the-class synechdoche . i do not think that the " prestigious subset " sufficiently describe he / man phenomenon , do not hit the mark head on , because it assume man be to woman under " man " , as kleenex be to puff under " kleenex " . i think my use of the term " tautonym " focus a little sharper on the genus-specy aspect . the difference between coke and pepsus be more like the difference between joe and john , and of a different order than that between boy and girl . i be suggest another way to see the generic phenomenon - - in part support by what i quote in detail from jakobson a few post back : a man be a live generic person , only make distinctive for sex in contrast / juxtapostion with woman . generic he / man in language describe generic he / man in-the - flesh - - as unmark for sex . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - to lydie meunier : i be glad to know that someone on linguistic have expertise in sociolinguistic practice during biblical time . could you provide some chapter and verse about the more-or - less slavery of wife to their husband ? it 's true there be all kind of depravity in the bible , in f = act joshua be quite an ethnic cleanser himself . do you know if there be anything in the bible about how wife of slave be treat , as they wou = ld be " double-slave " ? finally , you use the word " sexism " , so popular in our = common cultural vocabulary , but , aside from it be a political slogan , = how could we most appropriately define it in its non-political slogan sense , = as you use it ? = jeff weber =
