Subject: cfp : paclic10 2nd call

second call for abstracts the 10th pacific asia conference on language , information and computation paclic10 ( 1995 ) the language information science research centre , city university of hong kong , be please to announce that the 10th pacific asium conference on language , information and computation ( paclic10 ) will be hold at the city university of hong kong on 27th and 28th december 1995 . it be the consensus of the organiser of the 1994 joint conference of the asian conference on language , information and computation ( aclic ) and the pacific asium conference on formal and computational linguistic ( pacfocol ) that the two conference would continue to be hold jointly in the future as the pacific asium conference on language , information and computation , with the 1995 conference be number the 10th . this join conference bring together researcher of diverse background interest in theoretical and computational linguistics in the pacific asium region . topic of the conference include theoretical and computational study in syntax , morphology , semantics , pragmatic , discourse and dialogue analysis , corpus linguistics , logic grammar and formal model of other linguistic phenomenon . about 20 papers will be present at plenary session . paper presenter will have 30 minute for presentation and question answer . abstract should not exceed three a4 page ( one additional page for reference and / or datum ) . 4 hard-copy of the abstract with the title , the author 's name , affiliation , mail address , fax number and / or e-mail address on a separate page should be send to the conference secretariat ( see below ) . abstract submission : by 31st august 1995 notification of acceptance : 30th september 1995 submission of full paper : 10th november 1995 registration fee : : hk $ 800 / us $ 105 ( on or before 15 / 10 / 95 ) hk $ 900 / us $ 115 ( after 15 / 10 / 95 ) accept papers will be publish in the conference proceedings . camera - ready full papers should be no more than 10 single-side , single-space , a4 page ( approximately 45 line per page ) with 37mm margin on all side . keynote speaker : william s - y wang professor of language engineer city university of hong kong , and professor of graduate council university of californium , berkeley programme committee : churen huang , academium sinica , taipeus ( co-chairman ) akira ikeya , tokyo gakugeus unversity ( co-chairman ) byung - soo park , kyung hee university ( co-chairman ) benjamin k . tsou , city university of hong kong ( chairman ) lydium s . c . chan , national university of singapore jyn - sheng chang , national tsinghua university hsin - hsus chen , national taiwan university jaewoong choe , korea university zhendong dong , iss , national university of singapore one - soon her , national chengchus university changn huang , tsinghua university akira ishikawa , sophium university masato ishizakus , advance telecommunication research inst . international yan jiang , hong kong polytechnic university hisashus komatsu , hiroshima city university chungmin lee , seoul national university ik - hwan lee , yonseus university kiyong lee , korea university shuhung leung , city university of hong kong kim teng lua , national university of singapore robert w . p . luk , city university of hong kong yujus matsumoto , nara institute of technology haihua pan , city university of hong kong jhing - fa wang , national chengkung university jonathan webster , city university of hong kong dekaus wu , hong kong university of science and technology paul horng jyh wu , national university of singapore tianshun yao , north - east university tom b . y . laus , city university of hong kong ( secretary ) conference secretariat : paclic10 ( 1995 ) language information science research centre city university of hong kong tat chee avenue , kowloon hong kong fax : ( 852 ) 27889443 e-mail : rlpaclic @ cityu . edu . hk
