Subject: sum : ' because ' versus 's ince / as ' ( 6 . 1043 )

i would like to thank the follow person very much for their judgement , comment and various hint concern my query : marie egin , duncan macgregor , richard ingham , jame kirchner , kevin lemoine , david power , karen ward , yael ziv and especially karen stanley , who take a poll about my claim among her colleague ( a big thank-you to them too ) . > from the mail i have receive by now , the follow picture emerge : include the people interview by k . stanley , 7 do not agree with my distinction and 5 do agree more or less . some informant suggest other distinction between the conjunction : for one , 's ince ' and ' as ' be more formal than ' because ' ( a view which be also present in some dictionary and grammar ) , for another , ' as ' be more formal than ' because ' but 's ince ' be " only suitable for informal conversation but nor for write " . the latter judgement seem to be in conformity with a prescriptivist view accord to which 's ince ' as a causal conjunction be not to be use at all . ( i want to note that i have identify 209 ( = 13 % ) causal since-clause among 1576 causal as - , because - , for - and since-clause in the machine readable british - english lob - corpus ( write text from 1961 ) . most of these since-clause be to be find in the category call ' learn and scientific write ' . ) another informant , for whom my example sentence ( 1 ) be essentially synonymous with either conjunction , have the impression that the speaker of ( 1 ) use ' because ' " feel john 's admission more noteworthy , or more important to the narrative , than he or she would if 's ince ' or ' as ' be use . " into the same direction , i assume , go another judgement accord to which ' because ' be " stronger and more explicit and more exceptional . " ( i have find a similar view in the literature and have interpret it as a consequence of my differentiation : entailment on the basis of a rule or norm be intrinsically less noteworthy , less exceptional than ' real ' causation . ) some people have point out the relevance of the position of the causal clause . as a tendency , my rule / norm interpretation be consider to be more in accordance with the causal clause ( be it 's ince / as ' or ' because ' ) precede its main / matrix clause . however , one informant feel " more comfortable with since clause precede , and because clause follow , the main clause . " ( this impression be somehow in conformity with the statistical situation in the above mention lob - corpus : only about 9 % of the because-clause be prepose , wherea 41 % of the since-clause and 43 % of the as-clause be prepose there . ) one informant point out constraint which may affect the acceptability of 's ince ' as a causal conjunction : " 's ince ' seem to have a much more limit application . for me there be a tense / aspect / ? ? ? constraint between the clause ( consistent with the temporal mean it also have ? ? ) , otherwise it sound force or stilt . i do n't really like your sentence ( 1 ) with 's ince ' . reverse the clause make it more acceptable to me , as do change ' be ' to ' be ' ( strange ! ) . conversely , change ' have be ' to ' be ' make the 's ince ' version even less acceptable to me . " ( probably , the last point in this quotation be cause by the fact that replacement of ' be ' by ' have be ' make the sentence grammatically acceptable with a temporal interpretation of the since-clause . ) do i have to conclude from the ' empirical ' outcome of my query that my differentiation be not tenable ? for various reason ( which i hope to develop convincingly in a doctoral dissertation to be submit soon ) , i do not think so . are there , perhap , some more people ' out there ' who agree with my claim , but who refrain from simply state ' i agree ' ? of course , this would not make my query statistically more valid , but it would suggest that there be some plausibility to my non-empirical reason . carsten breul e-mail : carsten . breul @ rz . ruhr-unus - bochum . de
