Subject: disc . sex / lang

i have be proceed with a " disc he / she " theme . it have be somewhat expand , and i would like to have it post under the " disc : sex / lang " subject head . thank , jw ] in the continue discussion of pronoun , i ' m make a summary and a shift . the shift be spur by the necessity to widen the orbit from pronoun to " sex and language " , perhap an inevitable transition . alexis manaster ramer ( see below ) have suggest that a discussion of universal male dominace in society / language should take place prior to one of pronoun . i willingly go along , but reject the misandrist characterization . first the pronoun summary . " he " summary in my " he " work , i have suggest that to understand the generic and proverbial use of modern english " he " , one would have to integrate into their datum the fact that 1 ) " he " as a feminine pronoun survive much later in historical english than be generally acknowledge , and that 2 ) the late-archaic english " he " , on the one hand , as feminine , have an association with the all-gender plural , and on the other , as a masculine , have an association with the singular and neuter . " him " and " his " be during middle english , and later , also neuter ( " not one or the other " ) pronoun , and the ontogeny of the modern paradigm must account for these fact . there be more than a few example of " he " in a generic / proverbial context in which , if there be any sex distinction at all , it must be consider feminine , not masculine , as in the follow ( _ pier plowman _ , walter kane - - passus vii , manuscript h3 , line 235-36 ) : he that etyn here fode throw trauail god 3eueth they / she that eat / eat their / her food through work god give hem his bliss that here liflode so wynneth them his bless that their / her livelihood so earn . _ _ _ when the 18th century grammarian put the " he " rule on paper , the feminine morphology be not unknown , not yet forget . if gender feminist today put a gendrist interpretation on the grammarian ' motive and on the evolution of the " he " rule , it be through historical oversight , to put it kindly , and not for , as some maintain , misogynist motive , conscious or unconscious . finally , i have challenge the interpretation of the " worthiness " doctrine . accord to it , the grammarian of yore say " he " be more " worthy " . the word " worthy " have , i believe , be too quickly accept in its old english root-mean of " deserve " , wherea i have yet to see any context that contradict its other mean , base on its other old english root , " appropriate " . are there any clarify context ? please show i ' m wrong . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - sex and language alexis manaster ramer send me a personal response to my idea ; when i ask , he say i could post for general read . ( btw , what be some of the etymology give for " girl " , " boy " , " marry " ? ) alexis say : thank you for respond . since we obviously agree about the final resolution of this issue , i guess i would say that there be simply two aspect to the way one must respond to the people who be claim that the generic he be invent by male chauvinist grammarian . one be yours ( that it have a continuous history within english ) [ do i say that ? - jw ] . the other be mine ( that if we know nothing about the history of english , the universal picture would authorize us to suppose that this be indeed a natural phenomenon , not an invention of the grammarian ) . but i would then say that the presume reason why this phenomenon is universal be presumably that all know culture ( or maybe there be one exception , accord to what i read somewhere ) have be male-dominate at all know time period , and the fact that masculine / male be ' unmark ' must surely be a reflection of this . so , the locus of the blame [ ! ] shift from the conscious work of english grammarian to the subconscious workings of the language faculty of countless generation of human being all over the planet who have live in society where there be no concept of sex equality . what do you think ? - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - jeff respond thank for the elaboration . what do i think ? first , to get it straight . . . you be say that comparable structure to " generic he " be find in all language ( with perhap a few exception ) , and on that basis a person may be lead to conclude it be a natural phenomenon , but they would be wrong . rather , universal male domination be the explanation , as see in the unmark pronoun " he " , and we must " blame " the subconscious workings of the language faculty of all people in history , who have have no concept of sex equality . i have three question , each of which i provide some of my own view about . 1 ) what be some of the parameter of and who ( author ) do you look to for your idea that all history have be male dominate ? ( i personally resent this characterization . ) " dominate " hinge on what you mean - - the crimson sunset dominate the horizon and the pimple dominate the young girl 's face . on a group level , man , qua male , have be sufficiently dutiful to " woman and child first " that they can be say to have historically regard their own lot as the more expendable , i . e . , at least as may say the contour of a bell-curve measure such a thing . men subdue the metaphorical colin ferguson of the world , not woman . on an individual level , camille paglium nail it when she talk about the substantial power of woman over man , qua male , base on woman 's power to close their leg . 2 ) where do your concept of linguistic markedness come from , and on what basis do you establish a cause-effect relationship between patriarchy and markedness in pronoun ? my own idea of markedness be base on the original exposition as see formulate by jakobson and trubetzkoy about 1930 ( see _ on language _ , roman jakobson , ed . linda r . waugh , 1990 . chapter 8 ) . a conclusion opposite to yours ( and gender feminist ) seem evident from the original formulation . their concept of " the mark " grow out of interest in binary aspect of language , like past / present , long / short . trubetzkoy write , " only one of the term of a correlation be perceive as actively modify and as positively possess some mark , while the other term be perceive as lack the mark and as passively unmodify " ( p136 ) . this suggest to me that " woman " and " she " be " species " term which female " have " as an exclusive and special privilege , wherea male do not have a " species " name exclusively their own , but instead must suffer to share a " genus " designation . it be for this reason i prefer sometime to call the masculine unmark word " tautonym " ( i . e . , in biology , one name for both species and genus ) . the editor of the book go on to comment on the concept : " thus , the general mean of _ lion _ , in contradistinction to that of _ lioness _ , imply no sexual specification - - and only the * basic mean * of _ lion _ prompt by informative context suggest a sexual specification : e . g . , _ lion and lioness _ " . is n't this say that man qua male emerge only in context that contrast him with the female ? otherwise , he be a generic ( genus , genre ) person and accordingly unmark - - i . e . , " just " a person . the jakobson book continue , " the constrain , focus character of the mark term of any grammatical opposition be direct toward a more narrowly specify and delimit conceptual item " . if man want to throw a testy beef about it , they could say , " how come the gal have exclusive word , but the guy have to share theirs with everybody else ? " 3 ) finally , you propose that in all past history they ' ve have " no concept of sex equality " . there be an inherent chronocentrism ( my term ) in your indictment , but , notwithstand , i ' m somewhat sure you ' re talk about " rights " . " right " , equal or otherwise , be a modern concept that be often muddle and sometime useless if one consider , as i do , that the more important end of life be happiness , inner peace , and freedom from fear - - what good be abstract rights if one be miserable all the time ? . the extremely important distinction be too often lose sight of between concept of inherent rights and entitlement rights . if we discuss " woman 's equality " and " man 's equality " without talk about document like the universal declaration of human right , the unite state constitution , the code of hammurabus , etc . , or source of rights , like god or the barrel of a gun , we be not go to get anywhere . if we take into account consideration of class , age , history , geography , etc . , i would argue that on a de facto level , woman have have , and continue to have , collectively , an advantage over man . i know that say so will upset a few of us , even give some of us a little gas and heartburn , my be the direct precipitation of which i apologize for in advance . best regard , jeffrey
