Subject: disc : sex / lang , re : 1079

h . stephen straight write : < < < in our focus on the epicene pronoun that double as the masculine pronoun , and the generic noun ( e . g . man ) that double as the masculine form , we sometime let logic , and the theory of markedness , overwhelm psychology . the evidence , i believe , strongly support the claim that even in clearly non-specific context these item trigger masculine prototype in receiver . > > > i agree with this generally for the present state of standard english . but the " trigger " , to some very important degree , be in the mind of the historical beholder . right ? the ' psychology " part i disagree with because of its unspecify universal implication , perhap better : " overwhelm semantics " . most people , except gender separatist , would be particularly untrigger to a masculine reference to word such as " sportsmanship " and " penmanship " . i like the construction of one of the first lady 's publicist who say of her , " she be her own best salesman " . " man " and " he / his / him " have differ semantic domain over time . in middle english " he be a fair wife " , " two man be make for the garden " , etc . if in the modern mind these construction trigger male association , it may make all the more necessary the study of historical change . in my middle english work with pronoun , some context can be find where " he that . . . " in proverbial use , with sometimes-plural verb , have the weight of proverbial " they who " , and be relate morpholgically to the feminine , not the masculine . a radical idea i wish someone would challenge me on . also , " him " and " his " be not only masculine , they be also neuter - - " neither one or the other " . to understand the modern paradigm , we have to study the history it grow out of , include the protogermanic and ie paradigm . i wonder if h . stephen straight have read my comment and quotation on " the mark " in recent discussion . all of us , man and woman alike , can be describe in some capacity as " generic people " . is n't this what we mean by " society " ? one veiw of the half-glass see that we , as generic people , desire to give female preferential treatment , and have distinct word for those of us who be female ( she , woman ) , but parallel word for male be , lack , be tautonym . we , those of us who be male , be relegate to use a word also use for everybody else . " masculine " be only sex-distinct in contrastive position with the " feminine " . the reason for generic pronoun double with the masculine be because man be , in our " psychology " think of more frequently as generic people . female have long be accord special priviledge in western society - - we do n't execute murderess , we create condition for those of us who be woman to live 10 % longer than man , we exclude them from the military draft , old woman commit suicide at a rate less than 1 / 12th that of old man , etc . that be not to say that everybody do n't have it rough once in a while . men do not externalize their victimization to a metaphorical " daddy " . i personally think that woman should go on be afford special status and privilege in language and society . the turn wine to venom these pass decade have show the dark side of our society . the writer say < < < " every one of the member of the boy and girl club love his parent . " " the culture of the world provide ample testimony on the extent of man 's capacity to adapt to different environment . " no matter that the situation logically embrace both sex ( and all gender : - ) , the damage be do . > > > it be the " logic " of an intuitive sort , and be not base in boolean and identity operation of the human mind . the " logic " be no more than a rule-base in the configuration of gender / case / number of the modern pronoun paradigm . use of the word " logic " by many of us who discuss language be off the mark . i use " everyone . . . their " , and wonder about the linguistic timidity that hold other of us back . damage ? doe this mean exclusion from semantic space : - ) the writer continue , < < < yucatec maya , by the way , have no grammatical gender and , to the best of my knowledge , exhibit no morphological or semantic tendency toward treat either sex as the unmark member of the pair . h stephen straight , anthro / ling / lg across the curric , binghamton u ( suny ) box 6000 , binghamton ny 13902-6000 tel : 607-777 - 2824 fax : 607-777 - 2889 > > > this seem counter to the idea that say universal male cultural dominance be see in male dominance in language construction - - that alexis manaster ramer postule in slightly more qualify form . it sure would be nice to have other example , pro and con , from around the world . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - lydie meunier write < < < question raise in answer to alexis manaster ramer who write : > so what it all boil down to , again , be that i maintain that > it make no sense whatever to discuss the origin of the > epicene he phenomenon in the context of the story of > english prescriptive grammar , but only in the context of > the way in which perception of sex role have inform > the structure of language ( as of any other institution ) . have perception of sex role inform us on the structure of language , or do the structure of language enlighten us on socially acquire yet still subconscious sexist behavior of today 's homo sapien ? lydie e . meunier / department of language university of tulsa / tel : 918 631 2813 ( o ) lang _ lem @ centum . utulsa . edu / fax : 918 744 1902 > > > the " contructivist " view of sexuality be widely hold in academia , but the view have the hauteur of an " in " religious tenet , and have no well-reason position , and only endure because its opposite can't " really " be " prove " . the only proof-evidence i have ever see consist of some embarrasingly poor analogy with animal behavior . where 's the good evidence ? i ' ll post sometime soon the interest thing - - in support of my side - - that jane goodall have to say about sex role and chimp . the " constructivist " view of sexuality go back to the 1960 - - ( to keat millet in chapter 2 of her famous book ? ) when those of us who be differentially sex - - like millet later affirm to herself be - - become preoccupy , and still be , with passive and active sex-relate role . the constructivist view be a spoiler-view assault on traditional morality .
