Subject: phonemicity of write

i would like to get some estimate of what percentage of the world 's write language be represent orthographically in a phonemic manner . more specifically , how many write language be such that one can predict the phonological property of a word - - - include stress , accent or tone - - - merely by consult the string of symbol use to write that word , and without further information , such as the morphological structure of the word ? for a language whose write system be largely phonemic , one could write down a set of rule for word pronunciation , and in the ideal case the number of rule would be within an order of magnitude of the number of grapheme . ( a few lexical exception do n't matter , as long as there be n't hundred of them . ) i be leave the sense of ` phoneme ' intentionally vague : normally a phonemic write representation imply that one can predict the surface phonemic representation from the write form of the word , but i would be perfectly happy consider a system to be phonemic if some more abstract level of phonological representation be represent , from which the surface phonemic representation could be predict by regular phonological rule / principle . ( i should also note , to clarify the question further , that i be interest primarily in the correspondence between the write form and the speak form for the the standard variet ( y , ie ) of the language , which the write form presumably reflect to some degree : i be not interest ( at the moment ) in dialect of the language which deviate to vary degree from the standard . ) so , under this definition , spanish would presumably count as very phonemic since one can nearly alway predict the pronunciation of a word , include its stress , from the orthography . romanian be less phonemic since while the actual set of phoneme in a word be mostly determinable by the set of grapheme use ( with the representation of glide be slight source of complication ) , the placement of stress require some knowledge of the morphological class of the word ( follow work of ioana chitoran ) . english be presumably among the least phonemic , since the ` regular rule ' of pronunciation be themselve quite complex , and there be many lexical exception . the particular classification of the write system as logographic , moraic or segmental be unimportant : in principle chinese write could be class as phonemic ( albeit with a rather large set of grapheme ) , but for the fact that especially among the more common character there be quite a few with pronunciation ambiguity which can only be resolve use lexical information . i be familiar with several of the recent book on write system : but while these typically contain in-depth analysis of particular system , as far as i can tell , nobody have do a survey of this kind . ( if on the contrary , someone can point me to a survey that answer this question , i would be most grateful . ) so , i would be very interest in get as much information relate to this question on as many language as people be sufficiently familiar with . i think i already know the answer to these question for the more familiar western european language ( include some less familiar one like irish and welsh ) , as well as romanian , russian , hebrew , arabic , chinese , japanese and malagasy . i would be particularly interest in know about language for which write system have only recently be develop , or for which the spell system have recently undergo a massive restructure : conventional wisdom have it that in such case the write system should be very phonemic , but perhap that be not alway true . please send any reply to me , and if there be a sufficient number i will post the result of this survey to the list . - richard sproat linguistic research department at&t bell laboratory | tel ( 908 ) 582-5296 600 mountain avenue , room 2d - 451 | fax ( 908 ) 582-7308 murray hill , nj 07974 , usa | rw @ research . att . com
