Subject: sum : 501 - beaver revisit

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - on july 8 i post the follow two sentence , 1 . the beaver get a christmas card because she do n't notice the brown paper bag at her back door . 2 . one day , in the park lot of the concert hall , i witness a major use - 501 deal . in order to find out their ( hide ) mean . these sentence be part of a set of isolate idiomatic sentence , without any give context whatsoever , which my wife and i be try to translate . the mean of the majority of these sentence could be find rather easily by means of the usual resource , like common sense , ( slang - ) dictionary and encyclopedia 's . however , 501 - beaver remain a mystery . so we decide to consult internet , to see if a native speaker could help us out . about 50 reaction come from all over the world ! with your help the 501 mystery have be solve . thank a lot ! however , unfortunately ' the beaver have not land ' . sorry to have bother you with this weird sentence . we simply expect this sentence to be a common idiomatic expression . . . most of you mention the sexual connotation of ' beaver ' , ' bag ' and ' back door ' . the ' christmas card ' , however , do not fit into this picture . it may be a reference to something unpleasant , but then the sentence as a whole still remains highly cryptic ; the part just do n't match ! some of you come up with the possibility , that ' the brown paper bag ' may refer to ( hide ) a bottle of liquor . in this context ' to get a christmas card ' may be a euphemism for a hang-over or an alcohol problem . but still the sentence as a whole do not make much sense . . . another possible solution may be find in cockney rhyme slang , in which ' christmas card ' refer to ' guard ' , but then again : the other part of the sentence just refuse to cooperate . . . or maybe the sentence refer to a children book or a fairy tale ? fortunately the ' 501 deal ' be more common and so it be a lot easier to figure out the mean of the second sentence . a few people think the 501 may be a car . this possibility have cross our mind too . after have look it up in a car encycopedium and have consult a local peugeot dealer , indeed a 301 , a 401 , and a 601 , and even a 504 , turn out to exist ; a peugeot 501 , however , just do n o t exist ! so this solution have to be rule out . the great majority of the respondent tell us , that 501 refer to the popular button-fly levus 's blue jeans with straight leg . in holland this type of jeans be familiar also , but we do n't understand the " major use - 501 deal " in this context : " what 's the big deal in sell wear blue jeans ? " however , most respondent from the u . s . , but also from european country , tell us , that it be very popular to buy and sell use 501 's in the us . apparently young people be will to pay much money for use jeans , because they be more comfortable ( less stiff ) and because they look more ' hip ' than the new one . many company buy use 501 's and after that they be sell from store ( e . g . , on melrose ave . in l . a . there be at least half a dozen of these store ) . beside that , there 's a huge ( black ) market , in which case people sell 501 's out of the back of car or van in park lot or other public place . there may also be a foreign market for use 501 's , as rumour have it that use 501 's be also ship off to pari , london , the far east ( japan ) and eastern europe . because so many people react , we cannot quote them all . so we have make a selection . as some of the respondent prefer not to be mention by name , we decide to not mention anyone by name . at the end of this recital we will give a short conclusion . . 501 's , what 's it all about " 501 's be a style of blue jeans make by levus strauss and co . 501 's be , i believe , the best-sel style of levus 's . they be button-fly ( as oppose to the kind you zip up ) , and have 5 pocket . they be the kind of jeans people think of when they think of jeans . here in the us , use 501 's be worth more than other kind of use jeans - - in college town , you ' ll often see sign in vintage clothe store specifically say something like " cash for use 501 's . " before perestroika , there be a big black market demand in russium for jeans of any kind . levus 's be the prestige brand ; i do n't know the location in time and space of your narrative , but perhap the deal be shady . a major deal involve use jeans ( which here can be buy new on sale for $ 20 , and use , may fetch the original owner $ 10 in a vintage store ) must then be a negotiation about a truck full of jeans or so . many pair would be need to make the cash involve a major deal . " . use - 501 sale v . use - 501 deal " used 501 's be become in recent year more and more popular among the youth of this country , hence the rise in shop and vendor that deal exclusively in these use product . _ a use - 501 deal _ be most likely an informal street sale ( not through a well-establish shop , in which case it would be call a _ sale _ ) of use jeans , especially levus brand jeans ' " . witness a 501 deal " so the sentence could mean either the speaker witness someone purchase use ( previously own ) 501 's , with 'd eal ' mean ' ( business ) transaction ' , or 'd eal ' could mean ' bargain ' , that the jeans be be sell for less than usual . the fact that the speaker use the verb ' witness ' would seem to remove him from the action , so perhap the first interpretation be best . " . cowboy like their 501 's blue and stiff " i recently read an article about a company who buy use blue jeans from real cowboy and sell them at a very high price to people in place like new york city . ( cowboy , of which my brother-in - law be one , do n't wear their jeans when they start to fade , they like them blue and stiff . ) " . a use - 501 deal " i ' m inspire to write by a sign i see a few minute ago , while drive home from the office . it announce that a merchant would pay up to $ 17us for " use 501 . " " 501 " refer to a style of blue jeans - what my grandmother use to call dungarees - manufacture by the levus strauss co . all their style number be number between 500 and 600 . 501 be a popular style among young person , feature a button-fly and straight leg . i ' m no longer young enough for 501 ; i must wear 512 , which have a fuller leg and seat . tomorrow , i ' m go to take all my old , unwearable 501 and trade them for $ 17us each . i 'd say that a " major use - 501 deal " be either a transaction such as the one i ' m propose for tomorrow or , because " deal " be sometime use more generically , somewhat like " thing " , a place of business where such transaction take place . " . major 501 price , major 501 place or major 501 transaction " " a major use - 501 deal " no doubt refer to one of those temporary location where people offer to buy use levus 501 jeans for around $ 8 , with the intention of re-sel them elsewhere . " deal " be so inarticulate a word that it 's not possible to tell you definitively what be mean , apart from more context . ( 1 ) my best guess be that it relate to " get a good deal " for your use 501 jeans , that be , get a good price for them . the scenario i have construct be that someone want to point out a place where you can get good money by sell your use 501 jeans . ( 2 ) if it do n't have to do with get a price for use jeans , it may refer to the physical characteristic of the business place itself . this particular temporary storefront may be larger or more conspicuous than usual . in that scenario , someone want to point out a larger-than - usual 501 jeans stand . ( " a major use - 501 whatchamacallit : stand , storefront , business " ) ( 3 ) last scenario : someone witness a major jeans-sel transaction . he want to describe someone 's have bring in and sell a large quantity of 501 jeans to the jeans buyer . to be brief here be three possible paraphrase for " a major use - 501 deal " . 1 . " a place where they give you a much better-than - average price for your use 501 jeans " 2 . " a large or impressive use - 501 jeans stand " 3 . " a single business transaction involve the buy and sell of a large lot of 501 jeans " " . conclusion in reference to the last respondent , somehow we feel most comfortable with the third paraphrase , mainly because accord to most of the other respondent a business t r a n s a c t i o n be involve here and because accord to our own intuition ' to witness ' - - at least when it means ' to see sth . ' - - alway go with an object , express an a c t i o n rather than a s t a t e . in the case of the ' 501 deal ' this means that the one who utter the sentence , s a w that a 501 actually w a s b e i n g sell and because he speak of a major deal , he see a lot of 501 be sell at once . so , in our opinion : " one day , in the park lot of the concert hall , i witness a major use - 501 deal . " can best be paraphrase into : " one day , in the park lot of the concert hall , i witness a business transaction involve a large stock of use levus 's 501 . " if someone still feel uncomfortable with this transcription , please do n't hesitate to send your reaction to wimk @ zeus . c . kun . nl . thank again for all your contribution . many regards , wim koole , also on behalf of janny koole - loonstra nijmegen holland
