Subject: job announcement

austrian research institute for artificial intelligence ( ofai ) vienna , austrium research position in natural language engineering a research position be to be fill in the natural language process research group from october 1995 . the position be associate with a project grant from the austrian science foundation and will be initially for 24 month . an extension be possible , depend on further fund . the project aim at the development of a prototype of a german concept-to - speech synthesizer , with special emphasis on the map of a prosodic notation into phonetic / acoustic parameter . the prosodic notation be base on pierrehumbert 's notation , the synthesizer to be use be a demisyllable synthesizer develop at vienna university of technology . the project will build on previous research perform at our institute . the candidate should have experience in the field of speech synthesis or a relate area . knowledge of german would be favourable . salary will be in the range of 340 . 0 austrian schilling per year ( before tax ) . accord to local regulation , the salary depend on the formal prerequisite of a doctorate , otherwise the salary will be significantly lower . informal inquiry to harald trost ( harald @ aus . univie . ac . at ) or ernst buchberger ( ernst @ aus . univie . ac . at ) , tel . + 43 - 1-535 32 810 . ofai be the lead austrian research institute in ai and natural language engineer and a member of elsnet . more information about language engineer at ofai can be find at http : / / www . aus . univie . ac . at / oefaus / nlu . html if you be interest , send an informal application * as soon as possible * by email to harald @ aus . univie . ac . at , include a short cv emphasize previous relevant education and research experience . we will contact promise candidate , so that they can submit a formal application with all detail later on . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ernst buchberger , dept . of med . cybernetic & artificial intelligence , university of vienna , freyung 6 , a-1010 vienna , austrium and austrian research institute for artificial intelligence , vienna + 43 - 1-53532810 ( tel ) , + 43 - 1-5320652 ( fax ) , ernst @ aus . univie . ac . at
