Subject: re : 6 . 1070 , disc : sex / lang , re : 1023

in the ongo discussion of the " epicene he " , i think that perhap we be make some headway on certain issue , but all kind of new loose end keep unravel . what seem clearly establish be that the 18th century grammarian of english do not invent this usage , since ( a ) it have exist in english for century , and ( b ) it seem to be a linguistic universal or something close to it , not a peculiarity of english however , i do not see why anyone should call me " misandrist " ( or " mysandrist " ) . if it be because my name could easily be take to be a woman 's name ( although i happen to be a man ) , that would really be too bid . if it be because of my acceptance of the common view that almost all or perhap all society be in some important sense male-dominate , then that too would be inaccurate . i also believe that for several century of us and brazilian and so on history white people hold black slave and not vice versa , but that do not mean i hate white people . the whole issue of the sense in which it be true that man have dominate human society be certainly in some respects a subtle one , and one could certainly argue that this dominance have do us little if any good , but i do not see how one can deny that it be a fact . however , for the purpose at hand , this be not germane . what be relevant be ( a ) the linguistic fact that language that make any kind of gender or sex distinction in pronoun or verb form or anything else , as a rule use the male or masculine form as unmark form for person of either or unknown gender in some construction ( which may differ from language to language in detail ) , and ( b ) the anthropological fact that all or nearly all human society make social distinction base on sex which go beyond reproduction , breast-feed , and the like , and ( c ) the further anthropological fact that the male role / activity be routinely perceived as somehow superior , dominant , better , normative , whatever ( regardless of whether they really are , which be a completely different issue ) . so what it all boil down to , again , be that i maintain that it make no sense whatever to discuss the origin of the epicene he phenomenon in the context of the story of english prescriptive grammar , but only in the context of the way in which perception of sex role have inform the structure of language ( as of any other institution ) . alexis manaster ramer
