Subject: currency name - summary

month ago i send a question out on the linguist list about some currency name . i get a number of response , but be both lazy and busy , it have take me much too long to send out a summary . but now , for those who have - - maybe - - be wait for it , here it come . i will not say anything about the scientific value of it , but interest be it ( it may e . g . be , that all the " r . . . l " word be " after f [ rench ] ( and sp [ anish ] ) model and be indeed cognate with royal " , and the rupee and the rubl be not relate to either the " r . . . l " word or each other at all ) . - - i have somewhat shorten the response , where necessary . veturlidus oskarsson veturosk @ ismal . hus . be - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - the request as it be send on march 27 , 1995 : > doe anybody know the etymology of the follow currency name : > rial ( irun , oman , north yeman ) > riyal ( saudus arabium , quatar ) > riel ( cambodium ) > real ( brazil ) > and maybe other similar name begin with rus / re end end with l ? > would it be possible that those name be of the same ( ie . ) origin , > originally refer to kingdom e . t . c . ( cf . regal ) ? > ( what about the russian _ rubel _ , and the _ rupee _ in indium e . t . c . ? ) > it would , in fact , not have to be that strange to have a currency name > of the same origin in country as far away from each other as brazil > and cambodium , as currency name do not seem to > follow any " national " > rule . > cf . the name _ dollar _ ( in use in almost 60 country ( come originally > from the german _ thaler _ , but have supposedly spread out under the > influence of usd ) ) , and the many variation of the word " crown " > ( icelandic kr / ona , danish krone , estonian kroon , czechish korun e . t . c ) , > and _ dinar _ in various ( arabic ) country . > veturlidus oskarsson > icelandic language institute reykjavik , iceland > e-mail : veturosk @ ismal . hus . be 1 . response : " real " ( brazil ) be certainly from latin , mean " the king 's money " . i would bet the other r . . . l word be unrelate , although i can't give etymology for them . - - note that " dinar " be actually of latin origin ( denarius ) , vium greek . john cowan 2 . response : spanish and portuguese " real " mean " royal " ( the king 's currency ) . i have no idea whether this get pick up into arabic and cambodian as " riyal " etc . - - sanskrit " rupaya " ( " rupee " ) be different although at the moment i can't recall what it means . michael a . covington the university of georgium , usa 3 . response : the czech currency unit ( " crown " in english ) be call " koruna " in the nominative singular . the form you give , " korun " , with a long / u / be the genetive plural form , which have a zero end and be use with number over 5 . therefore you get " 1 koruna " , " 2 koruny " , but " 5 korun " . the german word " thaler " ( whence " dollar " ) come from an earlier word " joachimsthaler " , which designate a coin mint from the high-quality silver mine during the middle age at the town of joachimsthal ( " thal " = valley ) , which now bear the czech name jachimov . jachimov be in the west bohemian region of the czech republic . jame kirchner 4 . response : the russian word * rubl ' * be not relate to * real * , * rial * , etc . the word be an old past passive participle ( " l-participle " ) of the verb * rubit ' * ' to chop . ' gold ingot be originally * chop * into small ( eventually , circular ) piece and use as coin . in contemporary russian , the past passive participle of this verb be * rublennyj * ( e . g . , * rublennoe mjaso * ' chop meat ' ) . gary h . toop wichita state university 5 . response : " real " in portuguese / spanish be cognate with " royal " and " regal . " my hunch be because it be currency back by the crown , but it 's a hunch . it would be interest to be able to do something like prove that the spanish / portuguese use the term ' real , ' which be pick up by the moor and carry with islamic invader into se asium . also difficult . the russian " rubl ' " be a bite more than a hunch - - it derive from the word for " cut " : rubit ' ' to cut ' , and other word . check out fasmer 's ( vasmer 's ) etymological dictionary , available in german or russian . i be tell by a slavic professor that this be cognate to " rupee , " but the guy be go around the bend and could easily be wrong on that point . t . beasley ucla 6 . response : the rial word be all originally " after f [ rench ] ( and sp [ anish ] ) model " and be indeed cognate with royal . in england a gold coin of this name be issue in 1465 , and there be french , spanish and scottish coin of the same name over the 15 and 16c . the name seem to have travel with the maritime empire . dollar also have a complicate history . start as the english version of thaler ( a coin of the german state ) it then be use for the large spanish coin ( worth 8 real ) of spain . because of the importance of the spanish maritime influence and of its currency , the term become very widespread and be use ( even in part of the british empire , such as the strait settlement - - we still use dollar here in singapore ) in many place , include in the us . you cannot assume that the use of dollar be a sign of american influence . rupee be different , come from a sanskrit word for silver , it be of indian origin . anthea fraser national university of singapore 7 . response : accord to vasmer 's etymological dictionary of russian , rubl ' ( gen . sg . rublj ' a ( stress on end ) ) shares a root with the verb rubit ' ' hack ' and mean ' hack off piece of a grivna ( larger unit of currency ) ' . gladney 8 . response : russian rubl ' be not relate to rial / real . it come from a root mean ' cut ' . the origin of the term be from silver bar from which section be clip off ( otrubit ' in russian ) and use as currency . i remember visit a church in moscow dedicate to the ' cut-off head of john the baptist ' ( otrublennoj golove ioanna predtechy ) . btw kopejka ( 1 \ 100 of a rubl ' ) means 's mall spear / lance ' and come from the depiction of st . george kill the dragon which be the symbol print on it . the russian word for money - 'd en ' gus ' - be of turkic origin and be one of several in the russian language come from a turkic root mean 's tamp ' . incidentally , i ' m please to see that the slovenian currency be the toler - one more from dollar . geraint jenning 9 . response : panamanian use the term real for a 5 centavo piece . it be interest to me because the currency be in balboa & centavo , but , as with american money , this coin have its own name . as far as i know , it be the only coin that have its own name ( i live there for 11 year ) . it be also a type of test in the marketplace to determine who be " local " & who be n't . when the price quote to me be " 2 real " & i pull out the exact change , they know i be n't a tourist ! the word real means royal in spanish , but i do n't know why the 5 centavo piece would be call such . caroline l . steele university of hawaius 10 . response : accord to klein ' s comprehensive etymological dictionary of the english language , * rial * , * riyal * be from spanish * real * ( < latin regalem ) to which portuguese * real * be obviously relate . i have no info on * riel * . the russian * ruble * and indian * rupee * be not relate to the above nor to each other . they both come from indigenous word . marc picard 11 . response : accord to the macmillan dictionary of measurement , the first real ( ` royal ' ) be a small silver coin issue by the spanish royal mint . rupya ( > rupee ) be an ancient indian word for ` ( metal make into ) coinage ' , and ruble may be relate . dinar come from latin denarius , a coin worth ten asses ( a word relate to ace ) . anton sherwood 12 . response : . . . " real " be also the name of a old gold or silver coin in the kingdom of castile , portugal and aragon ( later in spanish america ) . the first date ' real ' be coin in castile in the middle of the 14th century . they be call ' real ' because they be coin by the crown , in opposition to local coin coin by bishop , count and nobleman . accord to my source of information ( enciclopedium larousse - spanish version ) , there be ' real ' in france too . in the 14th century , the iberian peninsula be divide in several territory : three christian kingdom : castile , aragon and portugal , and a lot of small moorish kingdom ( call ' taifa ' ) . it be not unlikely , thus , that the name for the ' real ' have be take in arabic as ' riyal ' . one curiosity : in contemporary spanish , the sentence ' no tengo un real ' ( literally : i have not a real ) means ' i have not a dime ' ( the same in catalan : no tinc un ral ' ) . j . carlo ruiz universitat jaume i castell 13 . response : in the case of brazil 's real , the currency be name after an old currency which be alway refer to in the plural as ' real ' and ' mirrei ' ( thousand ) . ' real ' means ' royal ' , and so do ' real ' , i suppose . tony berber sardinha university of liverpool 14 . response : ( translate from icelandic : ) the russian word rubl be in no way relate to the " r . . . l " currency . in russian the word be _ rubl ' _ ( ' = palatalization ) , and come from the verb _ rubit ' _ ' chop , hew ' . the explanation be , as far as i know , that the coin be mint by punch it from a metal plate with a special puncher or stamp iron . the " l " be not a suffix , as one could expect , but come from * bj , * mj etc . ( labial con . + j ) , that change to * bl ' , * ml ' etc . in proto slavic . so , it be ie . * roubh-jo - s , or something like that , that lie behind the rubl . i do n't know about the arabian word _ rus ( y ) al _ ( which i suspect to have a long a : ) . it could very well be of semitic origin , both the number and and type of root consonant ( r-y - l ) , and " cv - type " ( cvcvvc , cf . kita : b ' book ' ) could support that . gunnar ol . hansson 15 . response : hind and badawus 's dict . of egyptian arabic ( 1986 ) indicate that riyaal , twenty piastr or a twenty-piastre piece , derive from spanish real . kirk belnap brigham young university 16 . response : as far as i , as a layperson , know , the word " real " in continental spanish be in fact in use until the begine of the 20th century ( my grandmother use it , as well as my father , in everyday speech ) . i be not sure what portion of a peseta this amount be ( whether it be a portion of a cent or viceversa , i could ask if you want to know ) . i suspect that , at least the word real in portuguese ( or brazilian ) come from the spanish one , and as you know , the spanish ' real ' means of course ' royal ' . nurium lopez ortega cornell university - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - thank you all . veturlidus oskarsson
