Subject: job opportunity at celex , the netherland

job opportunity at celex : german database development - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - thank to a grant give by the board of the council for the humanity , one of the council function within the netherland organization for scientific research ( nwo ) , celex , the dutch centre for lexical information , invite application for the position of one full-time researcher to expand and enhance the german lexical database for the fix period of one year . task - - - - within the framework of a long-term lexical database research and development project , celex have be compile and update massive structure collection of numerous word feature for dutch , english and german for the past ten year . celex have be jointly establish and manage by the university of nijmegen , the institute for perception research ( ipo ) in eindhoven , the institute for dutch lexicology ( inl ) in leiden , and the max planck institute for psycholinguistic ( mpi ) in nijmegen . it be locate at the mpi , which be formally entrust with its day-to - day administration . a grant recently award by nwo enable us to appoint one extra computational linguist for a period of one year on a full-time basis . the future employee 's task will focus on enhance and expand the german lexical database . they include : - adding frequent word and neologism to the german database from the text corpus supply by the institut fuer deutsche sprache in mannheim , and possibly other , more recent or more extensive corpus . - expand these word to their full inflectional paradigm and encode their orthographic , morphological , phonological and syntactic feature . - disambiguate the frequency of all homographic wordform ( approx . 12 , 0 exist and new entry ) on the basis of their context in the mannheim corpus or other corpus . this task will be carry out in collaboration with two student assistant . - evaluate and , where necessary , revise the verbal argument structure list in the current database on the basis of scholarly publication , corpus research and dictionary label . requirement - - - - - - - - - - - applicant should ideally have a master 's degree in german with advance computational skill , or have mix but solid qualification in german and computational linguistics . native speaker of german with a train in general and computational linguistics be also invite to apply . employment condition - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - employment will be on a temporary basis , for a period of one year . although the grant be restrict to this period , the appointment may be extend depend on the provision of additional fund from the dutch government , european council or any other relevant body . no further commitment on our part or claim on the part of the applicant can be derive from this statement , however . the salary will be on the scale of 10 ( approx . dfl . 4 , 0 = ( us $ 2 , 500 ) to 6 , 0 , = ( us $ 3 , 750 ) before tax per month ) for junior researcher , accord to qualification and relevant experience . enquiry - - - - - - - - further enquiry can be make to : richard piepenbrock celex project manager max planck institute for psycholinguistic wundtlaan 1 6525 xd nijmegen the netherland tel : ( + 31 ) ( 0 ) 80 - 615797 fax : ( + 31 ) ( 0 ) 80 - 521213 > from 10-10 - 1995 : tel : ( + 31 ) ( 0 ) 24 - 3615797 fax : ( + 31 ) ( 0 ) 24 - 3521213 e - mail : celex @ mpus . nl more information on celex ( though not on the job ) can be find on our www - homepage at url http : / / www . kun . nl / celex method of application - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - letter of application , accompany by a curriculum vita and the name and address ( also e-mail address , if applicable ) of two referee should be send by surface mail or e-mail to the above-mention address . the close date for application be september 15 , 1995 . you can expect to be notify of the outcome of your application not later than one month after the close date .
