Subject: re : sapir - whorf and what to tell student these day

here 's what i tell my undergrad and grad student about that same chapter in language file . i . e . , it 's difficult to even judge what 's go on with whorf unless you be simultaneously conversant with linguistics , american indian language , and at least the insight of modern physics . first , the conclusion that be appropriate be that , as i show in " the demise of the whorf hypothesis " ( berkeley linguistic society , 1978 ? ) , what whorf say have little or generally no relation whatever to the entire body of discussion that come under the name " ( sapir - ) whorf hypothesis " . he show decade before the critic come up with their own hypothesis , which they fail to name after themselve , that he would never have agree with their characterization of his thought . simple test : read the lf chapter and then ask , " who create the whorf hypothesis ? " and a quick way to answer this be : what do whorf himself call it in his two or three reference ? he call it the " principle of linguistic relativity " or the " linguistic relativity principle " . my own read of whorf never find the word " hypothesis " at all . so - - right off the bat , and this be a good way to teach scientific nomenclature , who turn whorf 's ' principle ' into a ( n ) ' hypothesis ' , and why ? it be n't whorf , because his designation be clear . so what be the difference between the two ? well , a principle be like an axiom in geometry : a start point which be theoretically unverifiable - - it 's just a start point . you want something else , you begin from a different start point , and then you develop your hypothesis from there . next : what do whorf 's " linguistic relativity principle " have to do , if anything , with einstein 's " relativity principle " ( which i cover in my also bls , 1980 ? , paper , " is whorf 's relativity einstein 's relativity ? " ) . ah , now we ' ve get to the crux of it - - much against pinker 's stand ( which be copy and intensify in a lingua franca short bio of suzette elgin hayden recently , where a digression find its author say that whorf cobble together his theory from a few ill-translate snatch of apache - - echo a pinker statement and relie on pinker 's quote whorf correctly , which he do n't , about a canoe on a beach pointwise : which pinker identify as an apache sentence , but which whorf know quite well be nootka in the pacific northwest rather than apache in the beachless desert ) , whorf be up the ante on einstein , who argue that euclidian geometry , far from be universal , be applicable only to flat surface ; that for round surface , which most of reality be make up of , you need non - euclidian geometry . i . e . , when the phenomenon change significantly , you have to change the tool you ' re use . well , that 's what whorf say too ( see heisenberg 's lament below ) , except he move its domain from mathematics to natural human language ; hence : the truly aptly name " principle of linguistic relativity " as whorf himself name it . admittedly , this do n't make any sense until you see it in action , in " an american indian model of the universe , " where he posit a worldview without our tense / time ( past / present / future diorama or river of time ) , use manifest / manifest ( plus other synonym ) instead . that be : sae grammar / culture give that aforemention notion of " time " , which be support and maintain by their tense system ( though , admittedly , english be weird and get it through the culture side of the language / culture system ) ; the hopus language / culture system have no such image of time , work from a different worldview principle that see only cyclical , not linear , time - - round , not flat . most of the world 's grammar that have break out of the latinate mold show that the particular time / tense system of sae be pretty much peculiar to western european language - - hence a linguistic / cultural ontology of " time " as we know and practice it , and not the suppose universal we have so fondly believe it to be . side note : for one who read whorf closely , he make five or ten time more universalist statement than relativity statement in his writings , yet he be see ( and revile in a chomskyan universalist attitude ) as the relativist par excellent . so right from the get-go we see that 1 ) whorf do n't write and would n't agree with the hypothesis that someone ( s ) name after him ; 2 ) rather than be some derange crackpot , he be merely literate : whorf be one of the few interdisciplinary thinker between physics and linguistics in this century ; 3 ) whorf 's relativity principle have something important to do with einstein 's ; and 4 ) whorf be a universalist as well as a relativist - - he just have them in balance , a notable enough rarity in current academe , you must admit . if i may be so bold , allude to your post that " no one have disprove whorf 's mild version of linguistic relativity ( let 's leave ling . determinism aside , or the stronger version . ) " , even the mild version be n't his ! trace back like i do and you will find that whorf espouse neither strong nor weak version of determinism , and relativity have nothing to do with determinism when you see it from the physics viewpoint above , as he do . if you read carefully , writer about the whorf hypothesis admit that even whorf do n't hold a strong version of determinism ( so if he do n't , who do ? and if nobody do , why bring it up ? ) , and that all the critic hold the weak version that they dream up ( even though whorf would n't hold it because it 's at least weakly deterministic and therefore newtonian ) . so what 's go on ? the problem be that whorf have already , from his acquaintance with physics , move from newtonian monocausal determinism as an ideal into system think - - where sometime the opposite of one profound truth be another profound truth , where everything be interdependent , multicausal , interconnect : language shape culture while culture be shape language ; language shape think while think be shape language . the cumulative effect of the ( humboldt / boa / sapir - ) whorf hypothesis literature have be primarily to throw up a smokescreen around his idea so that people , include grad student in linguistics , psychology , anthropology and sociology , win read him in the original ( english ! ) . i tell my grad student that if they want to really find out what their discipline be about , go find out who their discipline be beat up on and read them ; and if you be so lucky as me to find someone that four major academic discipline be gang up on - - you know you ' ve hit a goldmine ! what in the world could be so important that four academic discipline create a combine smokescreen ? because so few linguist in this century have avail themselve of the change in think about reality that physics have be broadcast during this entire century , few linguist be even qualify to step into what they do n't realize be an interdisciplinary debate in the history of idea which whorf feel so comfortable in . i ' ll explain . i ' ll give you a synopsis of a talk i intend to give at a 100th birthday conference for benjamin whorf , which i intend to get fund for and hold in the bay area in spring 1997 . i call it " heisenberg 's lament . " you see , early in this century , that ' uncertain ' heisenberg be among the first to gain a ' glimpse ' into the subatomic world ; and , have do so , he render his opinion that , regard the subatomic realm , " we have reach the limit of our language . " he say this for two reason : 1 ) no matter how glibly western scientist talk about electron , proton , neutron , quark , etc . , when we look into that realm there be no ' thing ' , only process and relationship ; but in order to make sense ( i . e . , complete sentence ) in sae language , we need nouns - - and there 's nothing in the subatomic realm that you can , except willy-nilly , attach noun to . and 2 ) give that , our most fundamental scientific term such as " same " and " different " be useless . he do n't know then , and physics do n't know now , whether there be gazillion of electron or just one electron with gazillion of manifestation . we have reach the limit of our language . fast - forward a few decade and whorf hear this in his physics class at yale ( he have unpublish manuscript on gravity in the yale archive ) , and ponder : hm , i wonder if this have anything to do with what prof . sapir say the other day about hopus not need noun to express ordinary proposition - - just " rehpus " , " flash " , instead of " it " or " the / a light flash " : because when you come right down to it , how be the flash different from the light ? is " light " just a convenient grammatical fiction foist upon us by sae grammar ? and as he ponder ' light ' be noun or verb , particle or wave , depend on how it 's view , he see the universe in the same way , with different culture take different position on the question . in this case , since hopus do n't seem to take too seriously the absence of noun , perhaps , whorf surmise , hopus could be of use for physicist in explore and report back about the quantum world , that realm that do n't have thingy noun . fast - forward another few decade and physicist david bohm read whorf ( which i confirm personally in talk to him ) , and then , * in response * ( my attribution ) , write _ wholeness and the implicate order _ , in which he , among other thing , try to make english more verby and performative in the " rheomode " - - a brilliant flop ; and then launch on the scientific community a view of the universe which do not contain our familiar notion of past / present / future time , but instead an implicate and explicate order of reality - - an " inny / outty " notion where the future be inside us work outward instead of some vague distant goal we be head toward . an email acquaintance pointedly ask me what the difference be between bohm 's terminology and whorf 's terminology ; it take me 6 month to finally answer that there be none , except the hopi have have theirs for millennium longer . and then it hit me ! bohm , in his own maverick way , appropriate whorf 's answer to heisenberg 's lament in " an american indian model of the universe " and substitute more scientifically acceptable terminology ( implicate / explicate rather than manifest / manifest ) to see how the notion of a universe without linear time would fly in the modern physics and academic community - - and it have qualify success . but - - bohm be no closer to know whether whorf have be accurate in his description of hopus than he have be before write the book . and there have be so much bid press on the guy ! how be one to know , ultimately ? and here 's the part that almost no-one know so far . in 1991 , in the last few month of his life , david bohm launch his most ambitious thought experiment to date : with some other physicist and a few psychologist and linguist , and sponsor by the fetzer institute , he entice recognize american indian intellectual leader ( and some of their elder ) to join in dialogue together in what i can only describe as a roundabout way of ask american indian whether whorf be accurate in his description of the ' timeless ' hopus worldview . but it become so much more ! the american indian leader there have previously read bohm 's book and other , but the physicist know nothing about native american worldview and native american science methodology , so the indian have to build a bridge over to them in private meeting before the three public day on the theme of time , space and language . dure the day on time , whorf 's description of hopus come up , be read out loud , and discuss , though i do n't remember any hopi be present ; nevertheless , the other american indian present , mostly of algonquian tribe , give what can only be call ' independent verification ' in scientific terminology by say essentially : well , i can't speak for the hopus people , but that 's pretty much the way we do it . in fact , of the many whorf passage read or discuss in these dialogue , the physicist and the american indian present be usually will to give whorf his point ( prove again , perhap , the difficulty of be a prophet in one 's own country / discipline ! ) . but we ' re not do yet - - the best be yet to come - - the actual conclusion of heisenberg 's lament ! at the begin of the first dialogue it be clear that the quantum physicist have their favorite realm to explore and talk about , and the american indian also have their own favorite realm . as we dialogue , it begin become clear that those favorite realm have some fundamental principle in common : the only constant be flux ; everything that exist vibrate ; everything be interconnect such that the part implicate the whole . in fact , it become crystal clear that the last major obstacle to these realm be the same realm be really only terminological : the physicist be use to call it " the subatomic realm " wherea the american indian for millennium have be call it " the spirit realm " . now that 's a big enough surprise - - that modern physics be knock on the door of spirit without really mean to - - but not big enough , so now let 's take it home ! it puzzle the physicist just how the american indian should have foreknowledge of a realm they should n't know about , that the western scientific infrastructure have just recently lead us to - - and the indian have no such scientific infrastructure ! and as the physicist gradually understand that , like hopus , the algonquian grammatical structure do not demand noun , do not demand fictitious actor to embody action ( that , as my mikmaq and blackfoot friend tell me , they can talk all day long in those language and never utter a single ' noun ' ! ) , they finally have to admit that such language be indeed much better suit to explore that realm and report back than sae language - - whorf 's reply to heisenberg 's lament be verify and agree upon . when the phenomenon of reality change in a dramatic way , you need to change the tool you ' re use . now , of course , the physicist be leave with an even larger puzzle , to wit : how be it that these american indian have a language much better suit than sae language to investigate and describe the inner workings of the subatomic realm - - a realm they be n't even suppose to know about ! ? ! as you can see by now , pinker - - like all other facile critic and unindict co-creator of the so-cal hypothesis - - be out of his league altogether in attempt to characterize a major player in one of the most important interdisciplinary discussion ever in the history of idea . pinker , like chomsky , love logic ( which grow out of the grammar of sae language just as the philosophy of ' karma ' grow out of the grammar of ancient sanskrit , where it be use earliest as the linguistics term for 'd irect object ' ! ! ) , but have never really get with the program this century to replace binary / dualistic think with multivariable / multicausal / interdependent system think . whorf hear the call , way back then , and may yet prove to have be an entire century ahead of his time in linguistics . even though we can think in system for phonology and grammar , we have a tough time do it for " language and think " ; we feel we have to make them bipolar opposite such that they be distinct and one causes the other invariantly ; that 's why i so admire how slobin finally lose those monolithic term and frame the question instead in term of " think for speak " - - the at least one kind of think where your think be very much at the mercy of the form and category of your language , per whorf . so tell your student , as i do , that the only way to get to the bottom of what whorf do or do not say be to read his essay in _ language , thought & reality _ for themselve , perhap with the above thought as a guideline , and then figure out for themselve whether the sapir - whorf hypothesis smokescreen make any sense .
