Subject: sum : german / english translation software

a little while ago i post a query about people 's experience with power translator ( professional ) software for german - english translation . here be my colleague 's summary of response vium this and other list . 1 . a second hand comment that someone work in art history have find it unsatisfactory 2 . another say that the canadian government use the power professional ( french ) programme for translation work 3 . another say that the french version give quite comical or incomprehensible result , but this be on the basic version , not the professional . one conspicuous difficulty be with word which can have the same form as different part of speech ( eg gerund ) ; another be variant word order . 4 . someone say ( another second hand comment ) that it be " ok for the first cut " . 5 . a response from the correspondent of an owner of the basic german programme who send some sample with commentary , show that as long as you know both language and edit the text during translation the result could be satisfactory , but whether the degree of efficiency offset the time take to use the programme be not apparent . this correspondent refer to it as a " toy " . 6 . a response from an academic who work on the ibm translation product who refer to a german computer journal which rate the ibm programme slightly better ( and cheaper ) than the power professional . the reference be _ dos die pc zeitschrift _ 8 ' 95 pp128 - 132 . it be apparent that simple construction and explicit vocabulary translate more accurately than the complex and allusive , so the satisfaction give will depend very much on the nature of the task and the need or expectation of the user . for scan large volumes of print to ascertain the general subject matter these program be probably quite satisfactory ; for accurate translation , interactive operation by a translation-competent person would seem to be necessary . i have not yet decide to buy one of these program : i await a sale person who be prepare to run the risk of a trial translation on text supply by me . no satisfy user come forward . andrew carstair - mccarthy department of linguistic , university of canterbury , private bag 4800 , christchurch , new zealand phone + 64 - 3-364 2211 ; home phone + 64 - 3-355 5108 fax + 64 - 3-364 2065 e-mail a . c-mcc @ ling . canterbury . ac . nz
