Subject: sum : v - initial language

several week ago i post a query in connection with the exceedingly frequent vowel-initial lexical item of basque , in which perhap 50 % of native noun and adjective be v - initial ( i exclude verb , since ancient verb almost invariably show a prefix * / e - / in their non-finite form . ) i ask whether other language ( apart from the initial-drop language of australium ) show a comparable frequency of initial vowel and , if so , whether a historical explanation be know . i be particularly interest in hear about possible case of the lenition and loss of initial voiceless plosive , an explanation propose for an ancient stage of basque by andre ' martinet . one respondent query whether there be adequate statistical evidence to assert that the basque case be indeed unusual . i know of no such evidence , and indeed one of my purpose be to try to find out whether basque be really as unusual as be commonly believe by vasconist . the follow language be cite in the response . polynesian : the proto - austronesian consonant system have undergo considerable attrition in the polynesian language , which today exhibit between eight and twelve consonant apiece . in hawaiian , in which proto - polynesian * / h / and * / ? / have be categorically lose , v - initial word appear to be rather common . but i could not find any explicit discussion of this , and my impression of such hawaiian text as i could find be that the proportion of v - initial word probably do not approach 40 % , though i be ready to be correct on this . niger-congo : initial vowel be frequent in a number of west african language which be not closely relate ; the initial vowel generally appear to be of morphological origin . there be uncertainty as to whether the vowel be fossilize noun-class prefix ( the most popular explanation ) or the residue of derivational process , such as for make agentive noun out of verb . in the cross river language of nigerium , most noun be v - initial ; in some of these language , virtually all noun be . here it seem clear that the initial vs be fossilization of ancient noun-class prefix , in most case derive from original cv - prefix by loss of the c . in at least some of these language , most verb form be also v - initial , but only because the presence of fully functional agreement marker . benue - congo language generally lack a distinct class of adjective . in some benue - congo language , and especially in some bantu language , cv - prefix have instead be augment for morphological reason to yield vcv - prefix , again produce frequent initial vowel . ancient noun-class prefix appear to be recoverable to vary extent in many niger - congo language , especially in bantu . importantly , the original semantic value of the prefix can often be determine , though this be not alway the case . the kwa language ( binus ) edo be unusual in that every single noun must begin with a vowel , so that even c - initial loan from english have vowel prefix , apparently purely for morpheme-structure reason . yoruba be noteworthy in that it have around 45 % of v - initial word , even though four of its ten vowel cannot appear initially . catalan : a rough estimate suggest that catalan word be about 32 % v - initial , rather more than one may expect in a language with 7 vowel and 22 consonant , and more , i suspect , than be typically find in romance language . i know of no particular reason for this . arawan ( amazonium ) : many of these language have frequent v - initial word . it be suggest ( but not establish ) that these derive from the loss of initial glottal . in at least some of these language , v - initial word differ from c - initial word in that the first group may never bear stress on the first syllable . berber : masculine - gender noun regularly take a prefix / a - / , while feminine noun take / ta - / . muskogean : these have vc - prefix on v - initial word but cv - prefix on c - initial word . it be not clear to me what this means overall . siouxan : these seem to have undergo heavy reduction of initial , not entirely unlike the australian initial-drop language , but the result have be complex . siouxan language particularly show the lenition of initial / p [ h ] / > / f / > / h / , and possibly also some case of / t [ h ] / > / h / . germanic : the change / k [ h ] / > / x / > / h / be well attest here , but not , as a rule , exclusively in word-initial position ( though sometime in syllable-initial position ) . lenition of voiceless plosive generally be widespread in germanic . on the basis of this admittedly unscientific sample , i would therefore suggest the follow conclusion : ( 1 ) language in which 40 % or more of noun be v - initial be not exceedingly rare , but they do not appear to be at all common . the majority of the example come from niger - congo . ( 2 ) in niger - congo , the initial vowel derive chiefly from morphological source , probably entirely so apart from the reduction of cv - prefix to v - in some language . fossilize noun-class prefix appear to be the most widely accept origin in most case , and such prefix appear to be certain in some case , in which the semantic value of the prefix be still recoverable . but other morphological process may be responsible in some other case . ( 3 ) outside of niger - congo , there appear to be little evidence of morphological origin for initial vowel , and loss of initial consonant be more usually invoke . the consonant invoke be , unsurprisingly , more likely to be glottal than oral obstruent . ( 4 ) except perhap in siouxan , there be little or no evidence for the systematic loss of initial voiceless plosive . so what happen in basque ? i still do n't know . the american long-ranger john bengtson have for year be defend the " fossilize noun-class prefix " view of the basque initial vowel , for reason of his own , but there seem to be no trace of any semantic correlation with the initial vowel , and in fact the frequency of each of the five basque vowel appear to be about the same initially as elsewhere : a > e > i > o > u . my money be therefore still on the systematic loss of certain initial consonant , but i ' ll be very surprise if i ever have to pay out or get to collect . my thanks to maile rehbock , bruce connell , max wheeler , dan everett , john koontz , david stampe , mark liberman , herbert stahlke , and andrew carstair - mccarthy for their helpful response . larry trask cogs university of sussex brighton bn1 9qh england larryt @ cog . susx . ac . uk
