Subject: call for contribution

call for contribution : _ concept and practice of network - base language teach _ mark warschauer , university of hawaius at manoa richard kern , university of californium at berkeley we be submit a proposal to cambridge university press apply linguistic sery ( series editor michael long and jack richard ) for an edit volume on the concept and practice of computer network-base language teach ( i . e . , involve the internet , local area network , or other form of electronic communication ) . it be intend that the book will be solidly base on second language acquisition theory and research and that its principle audience will be faculty and graduate student ( e . g . , as a text in graduate course in apply linguistics , tesol , and foreign language education ) . we be seek two type of chapter submission : ( 1 ) critical analysis of the concept of network-base teach as they relate to aspect of language acquistion theory or educational theory ( for example , consideration of relationship of network-base language teach to cognitive , psycholinguistic , sociolinguistic , sociocultural , literary , or critical pedagogical theory ) . ( 2 ) theoretically - ground empirical study of the practice of network-base teach . chapter on classroom practice should include a review of the literature , a detail description of the research method use , an in-depth analysis and discussion of the datum , and implication for teach and future research . analyse can be qualititative or quantitative , and can explore multiple type of variable ( e . g . , process , product , cognitive , social , affective , contextual ) . timeline / deadline : 1 . dec . 1 , 1996 : notification of interest please send an email message to mark warschauer ( mark @ hawaius . edu ) or richard kern ( kernrg @ uclink . berkeley . edu ) notify us of your possible interest in submit an abstract as well as the likely topic . 2 . jan . 15 , 1996 : submission of abstract please send one packet to each editor include : one page with the title of your abstract and your and your contact information ( address , telephone , e-mail , and fax number ) ; one page with the title and abstract of the propose chapter ( maximum 1 - 2 page , single space ) ; your complete cv , include previous publication one copy to : one copy to : mark warschauer richard kern esl dept , moore 570 department of french 1890 east - west road university of californium , berkeley university of hawaius berkeley , ca 94720-2580 honolulu , hi 96816 3 . feb . 15 , 1996 : notification about status of abstract 4 . sept . 1 , 1996 : manuscript submit to editor ( warschauer / kern ) ( hard copy and diskette , in apa format ) 5 . oct . 1 , 1996 : initial editorial response ( by warschauer / kern ) to manuscript 6 . dec . 15 , 1996 : revise manuscript due 7 . feb 1 , 1997 : book manuscript submit to cambridge university press apply linguistic sery editor ( expect publication date , 9-12 month later ) the editor : mark warschauer be a researcher at the national foreign language resource center of the university of hawaius . hbe publication include _ e - mail for english teach : bring the internet and computer learn network into the language classroom _ ( tesol publication , 1995 ) and _ virtual connection : online activity & project for network language learner _ ( university of hawaius , in press ) . richard kern be assistant professor of french and director of the french language program at the university of californium at berkeley . hbe research interest include read and write in a foreign language and the use of network computer to facilitate communicative language use . he have publish article in the modern language journal , foreign language annal , canadian modern language review , and study in second language acquisition . thank you very much for your interest . we hope that this book will play an important role in bring together the most advance research on this topic and make it available to faculty , researcher , graduate student , and interest teacher . we be look forward to hear from you and to receive your abstract . mark warschauer richard kern university of hawaius university of californium , berkeley markw @ hawaius . edu kernrg @ uclink . berkeley . edu
