Subject: the ldc unite nation corpus

in linguist 6 . 973 and a parallel query to the corpus list , rapahel salkie ask some question about the un parallel corpus from the linguistic data consortium ( ldc ) . before these query appear , a response to an earlier query from dr . salkie have already go out privately from rebecca finch . i certainly urge anyone with experience in use the un corpus to respond to dr . salkie as well . we have also place a sample of 24 ( out of 21 , 0 ) parallel document , each in english , french and spanish , in : ftp : / / ftp . ci . upenn . edu / pub / ldc / datum _ sample / un _ par _ sample . tar . z these sample should also be accessible , along with quite a bite of other ldc information , from the www page at url http : / / www . ci . upenn . edu / ~ ldc let me add a few word about ldc price and cost , since dr . salkie 's message express the normal human annoyance at be ask to part with money , both in the case of the un corpus and another ( not yet publish ) ldc parallel text corpus , the canadian hansard . the ldc membership fee for a university be $ 2 , 0 , and for this fee everyone at that university can get an unlimit and perpetual research license for everything that the ldc publish during the year of membership . thus you can join the other ninety current member of the corsortium and get not only the forthcome hansard corpus , but also the other twenty or so database publish this year . for the same amount , a university can get the un corpus and the other 15 database publish in 1994 . whether a particular database , or collection of database , be worth that amount of money be of course a matter of individual or institutional judgement . we feel that $ 2 , 0 , which be roughly the cost of a moderately configure pc or an international conference trip , be not out of line even for university researcher . speak for myself , i have a great deal of sympathy for the effort to provide research resource free or at minimal cost , and i have be involve in several successful effort to bring out such database over the year , include the acl / dci cd-rom , the eci disk , the celex disk , and other offer in the range of $ 25 - $ 200 . these effort rely heavily on volunteer labor and other donate resource ; in several case they have also rely on cash donation from the ldc . however , volunteer labor be rarely available in the need quantity ; and of course ldc - supply cash , as well as the existence of the ldc as an organization , depend on income from somewhere . the money that we get from membership and database sale be a crucial part of the picture - - - without it the ldc would not exist , and neither would either of the database under discussion . to highlight the point , the history of the u . n . publication be worth review briefly . we decide to try to publish the u . n . archive because translation researcher want parallel text . after conclude several month of negotiation with un representative and lawyer for both side , we pay for a nj - base computer consultant to go into the un office at night so as to make backup of the archive from dismountable disk pack for a long-obsolete wang word processor onto cartridge tape . this require several month and cost a considerable sum ; we have to use this particular person because he be an authorize service rep for the un facility . then come six person-month of work at the ldc . we have to decode the proprietary and undocument wang backup format , and the equally proprietary and undocument wang character set , typographical code and file structure . we re-organize the entire archive and translate it into wordperfect format , and publish a certain number of cd-rom s in this form for the purpose of the un - - - this be part of the agreement that we make with them for access to the datum . then we translate the document into iso-8859 - 1 with sgml markup ( include a work dtd , for those how care ) , and work out the correspondence among document . this be far from trivial , since each un language have be enter separately , with no coordination of file name , file date , or even division of document into file , and there be ten of thousand of document per language . this work be mainly do by dave graff , whose salary the ldc pay . we be not likely to recover the cost of acquisition and production of this database through sale and membership buy for its sake . we subsidize our member by cost-share with government grant , or by use income from more popular or less expensive database to cover unrecover cost of less popular or more expensive one . in the case of the forthcome hansard corpus , which dr . salkie also mention , the cost of acquisition and publication have be similar to that of the u . n . material , and the same remark about subsidy apply . whether a particular database be worth a certain price be a matter of individual taste , but as a matter of simple arithmetic , the fee charge in these two case be unlikely ever to cover the cost incur . for those who have read this far , i would like to repeat a stand offer that have be in existence since the begin of the ldc . if you be interest in cd-rom publication of a language-relate database that be plausibly of interest to our membership , and this database be reasonably close to be in shape to publish , we will pay the cost of production , use your label design or one work out with you ; we will give you up to a hundr copy to do with as you see fit ; we will put the item in our catalogue at whatever price you choose ; and we will remit to you any result income in excess of our production cost . the copyright ( if any ) will remain with you , and we will handle any user license arrangement that may be necessary , send the sign license to you . we have publish several database on this basis , and be plan to publish several other , although ( from past experience ) the chance of make back our production cost be no better than even . best wish , mark liberman myl @ unagus . ci . upenn . edu 619 william hall university of pennsylvanium phone : 215-898 - 97 philadelphium , pa 19104-6305 fax : 215-573 - 2175
