Subject: summary : translation of philosophical text , textual criticism

the follow list contain all reference i get in the various , although regrettably not too many , response to my query concern the application of translational theory to philosophical text and issue in textual criticism : aland , aland 1987 - kurt aland and barbara aland : the text of the new testament : an introduction to the critical edition and to the theory and practice of modern textual criticism , tran . by erroll f . rhode . grand rapid , mi : eerdman publish co . baker - mona baker : in other word . ( a text for teach translation , include the teach of the effect of context and discuourse analysis on translation . ) hewson , martin 1991 - ? hewson , ? martin : redefine translation : the variational approach . routledge . london . iser 1978 - ? iser : the act of read : a theory of asthetic response . john hopkin university press ; baltimore . jauss 1982 - ? jauss : toward an asthetic of reception . harvester press ; brighton . mc carter 1986 - p . kyle mccarter : textual criticism : recover the text of the hebrew bible ( philadelphium : fortress press , 1986 ) metzger 19 ? ? - bruce metzger : the text of the new testament : it transmission , corruption and restoration , oup neubert , shreve 1992 - ? neubert , ? shreve : translation as text . kent state university press . kent , ohio . snell - hornby 1988 - m . snell - hornby : translation study : an integrate approach . john benjamin ; amsterdam - see esp . pp 13-22 on the illusion of equivalence . west 1973 - martin l . west : textual criticism and editorial technique applicable to greek and latin text . b . g . teubner , 1973 . further information i gather : i be tell that what i call " textual criticism " be , nowaday , more commonly refer to as " scholarly edit " . another reference bring me to the interpret ancient manuscript web at http : / / www . stg . brown . edu / project / mss / overview . html , which be devote to new testament textual criticism ( and be very helpful , indeed ) . although i be confident that a thorough read of at least some of the above-given source will no doubt broaden my horizon and deepen my understand immensely , my curiosity about the translation of philosophical text still remains largely unsatisfy for the moment . to clarify what this curiosity be all about - here be what i consider to be peculiar to and characteristic for the translation of philosophical text , say , some generalize observation from my specific situation as translate ancient indian and tibetan philosophical text . - the " temptation of consistency " . once a text be acknowledge as be a philosophical work , it be invariably presuppose that it be consistent , coherent , and thoroughly rational . the author be not suppose to make self-contradictory statement unless some assumption of the philosophy in question provide an explanation for these . while this presupposition be necessary and adequate to a certain extent , it tend to yield rather questionable result when uncritically combine with the " temptation of evaluation " , or the " temptation of justification " . especially when translate philosophical text from foreign , " exotic " culture , the translation do not only present itself as a translation , but also as an argument why the text in question merit translation in the first place . in other word : because of the marginalization of " exotic " philosophy - in the introductory class of philosophy i get to hear at university , i be still tell that there be no philosophy to the east of greece - , a translation have to justify its appearance by justify that the translate text contribute to a presuppose universal philosophy in a relevant manner . this be highly problematic for various reason . the specific factor i have in mind , however , be that , when a translator have decide upon translate an " exotic " philosophical text , the value and content of the text be beyond question - its philosophical character and quality be presuppose to an extent which can severely damage and undermine the very project of translation . " mistake " which the author make ( statement which would render the text less valuable for comparative philosophy ) be tacitly " correct " ( read : delete ) , terminology be adjust etc . - this phenomenon itself be ground in the personal union of translator and historician , translator and interpreter , translator and commentator . while a translation of a novel can be do by one person , who be a translator in a more technical sense , and can be thoroughly research in its historical impact by somebody else , who be a literature-historian , this be not only uncommon in the field of comparative philosophy ( or the study of other culture ' philosophy ) , but also hardly feasible - for in most case , even the philological constitution of the text in question have to be inform by the interpretation . this result in a quite difficult ( and peculiar ) position of translation in the whole hermeneutical process - in most case , the translation will serve as a " second-language " - commentary to the translate text , not present an otherwise inaccessible philosophical text in its own right to those who do not understand the source-language , but a ) justify the constitution of the text , b ) clarify the interpretation on part of the translator and c ) ( see above ) justify the project of translation for those who not only do understand the source-language , but who be already basically familiar with the historical and philosophical environment . in this context , translation lose much of its " mediate " function between two language , but become a tool of explanation , which , in some context , can even be dismiss with ( i have see and hear many specialist in indian philosophy whose explanation be basically make up of sanskrit term , only vaguely connect by english copula ) . while this can naturally be explain on account of different target audience ( translation for specialist will be different from translation for non-specialist ) , i find that this different function of translation be not recognize within the " specialist ' " group at all . in other word : criterium which would apply to judge a translation in a broader context ( e . g . a translation of a novel ) be apply to translation which be carry out in this specific context , without even consider a possible difference in the pragmatic environment . i would thoroughly appreciate any opinion on this , birgit kellner institute for indian philosophy university of hiroshima
