Subject: call for papers - - - jengl

call for papers journal of english linguistic one of the few linguistics journal dedicate to present primarily empirical work , the journal of english linguistic be now be publish by sage periodical press , a lead international publisher of scholarly book and journal in the social science . the editor , william a . kretzschmar , jr . , and charle f . meyer , continue to invite submission on the modern and historical period of the english language . the journal of english linguistic normally print synchronic and diachronic study on subject from old and middle english , to modern english grammar , corpus linguistics , and dialectology . other topic , for example , from language contact , to pidgin / creole , or stylistic be acceptable if the article keep its focus on the english language . article normally range from 10 to 25 page in typescript ( up to about 50kb on disk ) . submission to the journal of english linguistic imply that your article have n't be simultaneously submit to other journal or previously publish elsewhere . as a new feature begin with the first sage issue , volume 24 , the journal of english linguistic will publish special issue ( monograph or topical collection of article appropriate to the journal that be up to approximately 100 print page ) . these special issue should treat methodology or present result of model study . all methodological issue should be fully illustrate with particular example from empirical research , and should present documentation complete enough for reader themselve to use the method describe . model study should fully describe datum acquisition and analysis , as well as present detail result and conclusion . proposal for special issue of the journal of english linguistic should be send to the editor . the journal will continue to review title in general and historical linguistics , language variation , sociolinguistic , and dialectology for an international audience . unsolicit review cannot be consider . book for review and correspondence regard review should be send to the editor . all submission should be prepare accord to the chicago manual of style , 14th ed . submission be jury . send all mss to the editor : provide a textfile produce by any common ibm - compatible word processor , on diskette or vium electronic mail ( mac user should submit a pure ascii file ) , plus two copy of a format printout . all other editorial correspondence should be address to the editor . william a . kretzschmar , jr . editor , journal of english linguistic university of georgium , athen , ga 30602-6205 tel : ( 706 ) 542-2246 email : billk @ atlas . uga . edu
