Subject: summary : pig latin

in may , 1996 , i publish a request for information on foreign pig latin . i apologize for the delay in summarize the result . you can thank dan down and waruno mahdus for keep me honest and inspire me to do this at last . i get such a great response that it be an intmidate job . forgive me ! i have n't take the time to summarize the result until now , but here be the language and rule that i be give . i appreciate the information ! thank to the follow contributor in totally random order : neil bermel william byrne " nadine " robert lyle good marina yaguello paul de lacy marc picard geoffrey sampson andrew s . mccullough jack aubert nevin leder scott marten billy clark jack hall judit j . toth mark a . wilson marc hamann annabel cormack nancy frishberg john goldsmith forrest richey trey jone dale russell lex olorenshaw liz mckeown marion kee salvatore attardo nobuko koyama - murakamus ( which sound like a language game already ; - ) john goldsmith , who edit the handbook of phonological theory , recommend bruce bagemihl 's survey of pig latin within that book . it be publish by basil blackwell 's and reissue in paperback in 1996 . ( this be highly recommend , even by people who be not john goldsmith ! ) everyone say that these be call " language game " rather than " toy language " , but my family be so competitive that if a game do n't have a winner and loser it 's not a game ! ( hence my use of the word " toy " ! ) here be specific example : chinese : onsset of a typical monosyllabic word be prepend to a different rime , which be suffix to a different onset ( possibly k ) " zhaus kang " for " zhang " mandarin : fanquie language ( each example have its own name , base on the pattern involve ; no example give ) dutch : backward speak : reverse syllable and sometime word ( emerge from economic cause - - need secret speech so other fisherman would n't learn their secret ) english : insert / ab / between onset and rime of each syllable " maby nabame abi babill " for " my name be bill " . ( also with / ^ b / , call " ubby dubby " ; sample at very end ) gibberish : insert " itherg " after each consonant " bithergy thitherga witherrgay " for " by the way " bicycle : insert @ s ( schwa s ) after every consonant : " h @ se t @ sell m @ sse " for " he tell me " eggegg langeggwagegg : add ' egg ' after every consonant : " theganksegg yeggou " for " thank you " zambuda : english pronounce wrong in every possible way ! long vowel become short ; c pronounce s when should have be k . " @ - nosk beh-faw - re een-tee - rynj " for " knock before enter " yardle bardle : those particular word be intersperse in such a way that the victim - - er , eavesdropper - - could never figure out the rule . ob-talk , from the firesign theatre : " ob " before word ( break down into raucous imitation of rooster call at a cockfight ) arp-bark : put / arp / before " first vowel of every syllable " ( and i think there be only one vowel per syllable anyway ) " harpellarpo " for " hello " french : verlan : individual word be say backwword . " verlan " for " l ' enverse " ( mean " backword " " zomblou " for " blouson " ( jacket ) german : " lav " insert after vowel . " ilavich wohlavonelave ilavin balavad holavombulavurg " for " ich wohne in bad hombburg " hungarian : put " v " after the vowel and repeat the vowel : " tu - vudsz i-vigy be-ve - sze ' - ve ' - lnus ' vus " for " tudsz igy besze ' lnus " more advance : say / rg / isntead of / v / . italian : " latino maccheronico " - not the same thing . use italian root and attach latin inflection morphology for humorous effect . italian language game : subsstitute initial consonant with " f " " fatino faccheronic " for " latino maccheronico " japanese : ba - bi-bu - be-bo language : insert " b " plus vowel between syllable " waba taba sibus waba " for " watasi-wa " portuguese : sima language : insert " sima " [ after vowel , i think ] " quecima-rosima cocima-mesima ( or cocima-mercima ) alcima-gocima ) for " quero comer algo " linga do pe : ( language of the letter p ) here 's how one version of it work : 1 . add [ p ] to the end of each syllable . 2 . after the [ p ] you just add to the syllable , copy the rime of that syllable . ( rime = nucleus plus coda ) . 3 . change open syllable in close [ o ] and [ e ] to the open vowel [ o ] and [ e ] , respectively . 4 . disregard the stress pattern of the original word / sentence ; instead , stress the * copy * of each rime . example : voce ^ cortou o seu cabelo ? do you cut your hair ? vopo ' - cepe ' corpor ' - toupou ' opo ' seupeu ' capa ' - bepe ' - lopo ' ? another person send this example : " quepe-ropo copo-mepe alpo-gopo " for " quero comer algo " russian : fufajskij yazyk : place " fu " before every syllable in a word : " fuprifuyet " for " privet " porosyachium latin ( pig latin ) : can be form different way . military pig latin : " ka " instead of " fu " : " katy kakukada kaseikacha kaikadiosh " for " ty kuda sejcha idiosh " spanish : insert [ vf ] between onset and rime of each syllable , where [ v ] be the vowel of the rime : " mefe llafamofo bifill " for " me llamo bill " insert / po / to the end of each syllable : " copomopo espotaspo " for " como esta " yakut : " pig latin " - - imitation of " russian pig latin " ( no example give ) thank again to everyone for your contribution and interest . i ' ll eagerly accept further contribution at my new address : markell8 @ aolcom yubbu gubbuy ubbar grubbate ! ubay hubope yubbu uball hubbav ubba gubbood subbumubber !
