Subject: summary : even if

dear linguist , on linguist list : vol . 8-959 ( 25 / 7 / 1997 ) , i post the follow query . three people respond to my investigation . my great thanks go to the follow people . since their judgement vary , i label a , b and c to them just for convenience in write this summary . a : m . lynne roecklein < lynne @ cc . gifu-u . ac . jp > b : laura gonnerman < gonnerman @ scf . usc . edu > c : gary h . toop < toops @ twsuvm . uc . twsu . edu > the query and summary be as follow . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - i have be work on some probelm of the meaning of " even if " , especially the follow so-cal consequent-entailment read of " even if " . please help me check the accptablity of the follow sentence . are the follow sentence acceptable or have natural flow of interpretation ? please put ok , ? or * in each slot and comment , if any . if the sentence you judge be unacceptable , what kind of context would you consider to increase the acceptability ? ( 1 ) ( a : * ; b : ok ; c : ? ) ( context : my employer be so puritanical that he would fire me if i behave in what he consider a libertine manner . ) " even if " my wife smoke cigarette , he would fire me , but , since she would n't ever smoke , he win fire me . comment of a : the ' even if ' clause be ok with with " he . . . me " , but the second halfdoesn ' t match . no one would ever phrase this combination of idea this way . it have a split focus . is the topic the extent of the employer 's puritanism ( first half ) , or the likelihood / unlikelihood of the speaker 's be fire ( second half ) . i find even my japanese colleague do this split focus thing all the time . such sentence be extremely difficult and often impossible to parse in any natural way . it take several year of familiarity with japanese version of english for me even to identify what be go on in sentence like this . i 'd love to know an effective way to explain to japanese student of english why this win work and maybe more important , how to recognize that they ' ve pro9duce an illicit split focus construction . ( 2 ) ( a : ? ? ? ; b : ok ; c : ? ) " even if " you drink just a little , your boss will fire you , but , since you sruely win drink at all , he win fire you . comment of a : a ) " " even if . . . will fire you " be most easily interpret as habitual , while " you surely * win * drink at all " would designate a single event in the future . these sit uneasily together . b ) since drink a lot be antithetical to drink a little , the last clause must imply that the boss be think of fire the addressee for some other reason . in this case , interpet the first half accord to a ) above , there can be no connection between the fire and the drink and the sentence fail by virtue of non-entailment . on the other hand , if one * go back * and reinterpret the ' you ' in the first half merely as the addressee , then the sentence may be possible , give that condition b ) abvove represent the real state of affair . it would also be imply that the boss need just a little bite more reason to actualy execute the fire . the final clause would sound better with " can't " than with " win " , however , in this scenario . ( 3 ) ( a : * * ; b : * ; c : * ) " even if " you drink just a little , your boss will fire you , but since you surely drink a lot , he win fire you . comment of a : the action posit by the " even if " clause be already a maximum limit . the sentence be logically impossible . comment of b : but if you continue the sentence as below then it be fine by me . ( 3 ) ( ok ) " even if " you drink just a little , your boss will fire you , but since you surely drink a lot , he win fire you , you ' ll get feed up and quit before he get a chance . ( 4 ) ( a : ok ; b : ok ; c : ? ) if it doesn ' rain , the game will continue . " even if " it rain lightly , the game will continue ; but if it rain heavily , the rain will be cancel . i ' m sorry i ' ve make a mistake here . the final clause should be , the game will be cancel , as roecklein ( a ) point out . ( 5 ) ( a : * * ; b : * ; c : * ) if it do n't rain , the game will continue . " even if " it rain lightly , the game will be cancel ; but if it rain heavily , the game will continue . comment of a : nonsense , in order and logic . comment of b : okay if you continue with something like : ( 5 ) ( ok ) if it do n't rain , the game will continue . " even if " it rain lightly , the game will be cancel ; but if it rain heavily , the game will continue , but it will be move to an indoor arena . ( 6 ) ( a : * * ; b : ? ; c : * ) " even if " the president be to get ingestion tonight , the cease-fire would end , but , if we resume negotiation with the enemy for a treaty of peace , it will continue . i ' m sorry i ' ve mistype the word here too . ingestion should be indigestion . comment of a : i would imagine rather that indigestion would contribute to the end of the ceasefire . ( 7 ) ( a : ok ; b : ok ; c : ? ) " even if " my wife smoke cigarette , i would not scold her , but , if she ever break my favorite dish , i would scold her . comment of a : " scold her " should nto be repeat at the end . very unnatural . ( 8 ) ( a : ? ; b : ? ; c : ? ) " even if " my wife smoke cigarette , i will not scold her , but , if she break my favorite dish , i will scold her . comment of a : underly logic ok . i do n't like " even if " with the indicative present verb because i like to mark conditional on the verb , but i ' m aware that this usage be in process of change . same proviso as above for the repeat " scold her . " the preference of conditional in even if clause over the indicative present be the same to all three people . however , i find many example of the indicative type . this seem a matter of individual preference . comment of b : ( 8 ) ( ok ) " even if " my wife smoke cigarette at the dinner table , i will not scold her , but , if she break my favorite dish , i will scold her . comment of c : to make sense of many of your context , i have to postpose the " even if " clause , e . g . , " i will not scold my wife , even if she smoke cigarette . " place the " even if " clause first in the sentence make it more emphatic . my own summary : ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) be judge logically impossible as i have expect . but i do not understand laura gonnerman 's rephrase ok sentence of ( 5 ) . ( 6 ) be also judge unnnatural to all the three people though i expect it would be ok . it seem to me the final clause cahnge the situation and focus of the sentence . why not ok ? finally , i must apologize to you all about the use of " scold " in the final two sentence . one person remind me of the bid implication of husband 's scold his wife . i do n't notice it . in japan , too , a husband who " scold " his wife be an arrogant person these day . thank you very much for your help . please make further comment , if any , on this usage . i ' ll be glad to make a reply . hiroakus tanaka associate professor faculty of integrate art and science tokushima university , japan 1 - 1 , minamijousanjioma , tokushima , 770 , japan phone & fax : + 81 886 56 7125 e-mail : hiro-t @ ia . tokushima-u . ac . jp
