Subject: sum : quantification

about four week ago , in linguist 8 . 948 , i ask a question on behalf of the basque language academy 's grammar commission about the standard or recommend scope of " quantifier " and " quantification " as grammatical term , with special reference to the function of " so many " and " so " in sentence like : there be so many student that we need a larger classroom . the student be so intelligent that we need to get another teacher . i wish to know whether it be consider terminologically appropriate to say that not only " many " and " so many " but also " very " and " so " quantify , and thus that the function of all of these ( include what i call degree modifier ) be quantification . better to contextualize the terminological problem that motivate the question in the first place and to help clarify the follow report / discussion , let me suggest , ad hoc , call the two position contemplate the " quantifier versus degree modifier " position and the " quantifier subsuming degree modifier " position respectively ; or for short , the versus position and the subsuming position . it be also only honest for me to declare at this point that my personal position have alway be and continue to be that of the versus view , although i try to word the original question neutrally . at this point i perhap ought to note that several respondent seem to prefer to treat " so many ( student ) " and " so ( intelligent ) " as merely various occurrence of a single item " so " rather than treat _ so many _ as an " item " to be discuss in its own right . i view this as a manifestation of linguistic anglocentrism : unlike english , in many language " so many " be not express by the item equivalent to english " so " plus a quantifier equivalent to english " many " , and since i be not particularly ask about english in my question , i reject the assumption that the english lexical composition of " so many " be of crucial relevance to the issue i raise . thank to the follow who respond to my question : bruce d . despain , patricium galea , e . h . klein - v . d . laaken , jan k . lindstrom , p . l . peterson and marilyn n . silva . a summary of their answer and suggestion follow , with an interjection of my own personal opinion at time , identify by my initial ark . marilyn silva support the versus position , state that " quantifier determine noun phrase , not adjective . " for " very " and " so " she prefer the term " intensifier " to my propose " degree modifier " . patricium galea express the same view . ( [ ark : ] since my original question be not about the latter term , i shall refrain from defend my preference of " degree modifier " over " intensifier " in this context ; larry trask 's _ dictionary of grammatical term in linguistic _ treat the two term as interchangeble . ) marilyn silva also discuss what i call " consecutive " sentence , point out that the subordinate clause in the two english example cite above , " . . . that we need a larger classroom " and " . . . that we need to get another teacher " , be call " adverbial clause of extent " in her treatment of english grammar , _ grammar in many voice _ ( ntc pub . group , 1995 ) . she consider that here " it be the clause that seem to quantify , not the intensifier in the main clause " . silva go on to point out that english clause of extent can be license by a main clause contain _ so _ ( with or without _ many _ ) , as above , but also by one contain _ such _ , as in : george be such a gentleman that he never raise his voice . and draw our attention to the fact that _ such _ could hardly be call a quantifier . ( [ ark : ] this argument seem to be of general typological interest , independently of the fact that there be no real equivalent of this use of _ such _ in basque . ) in all these sentence with extent clause , silva argue , " it be the [ subordinate ] clause that seem to quantify , not the intensifier in the main clause . . . which merely license the subordinate clause . " accord to silva , then , _ so _ and _ such _ should not be lump together with item like _ many _ or _ very _ in any case , in line with the view that they do not themselve quantify but merely license a subordinate clause which quantify . look beyond english , jan lindstrom point out that in swedish a single lexical item , _ mycket _ , function both as a quantifier ( of noun ) mean " much " and as a degree modifier or intensifier of adjective mean " very " , provide the follow example : 1 ) da " r fann mycket folk . ' there be much people ' 2 ) hon a " r mycket intelligent . ' she be very intelligent ' lindstrom do not seem to be defend a particular terminological usage in provide this observation , but merely wish to offer useful information that may be of interest in the discussion . [ ark : ] it seem to me that while the interest of this sort of observation be undeniable , it do not obviate the need for a terminological distinction , nor do it justify the subsumes position , but rather illustrate the need for linguist to employ a clear meta-language to enable us to distinguish between item or use even where , as here , their formal expression overlap language-specifically . ( by the way , some other instance of the use of a single form for " very " and " much " include portuguese _ muito _ , catalan _ molt _ , and italian _ molto _ ; but i can think of many more language that do not show this kind of overlap or homonymy . ) philip peterson write discuss in somewhat more abstract term the actual semantics of term like " many " and " more " , and refer me to his article " complexly fractionate syllogistic quantifier " ( journal of philosophical logic , 1991 , 20 , 287-313 ) . bruce despain 's comment be orient to language-specific issue of syntactic classification of quantifier in english that be not likely to be relevant to a description of basque , for which reason i shall not report his suggestion here . henny klein bring to my attention the follow bibliographical reference : gary , e . ( 1979 ) extent in english . a unify account of degree and quantity . phd thesis , university of californium , lo angele . in summary , none of those who respond favour the subsuming position accord to which " very " and " so " can be refer to as quantifier or their function as quantification ( unless that be what jan lindstrom wish to imply ; it be my understand that it be not ) . four of the six answer do not actually lean one way or the other . the two answer that address my question directly and suggest an answer , those of silva and galea , both constitute vote for the versus position . eskerrik asko denous ( many thanks to all ) alan r . king , ph . d . alank @ bigfoot . com alternative email address : mccay @ redestb . e , a @ eirelink . com , 70244 . 1674 @ compuserve . com snail : orkolaga plaza 3 1a , 20800 zarautz , basque country , spain phone : + 34-43 - 134125 / fax : + 34-43 - 130396 visit my web page at - - > http : / / www . eirelink . com / alank /
