Subject: diachrony and the minimalist program

a few week ago i post a query on the ' list regard reference for study carry out within the framework of the minimalist program . thank a lot for the answer and here be they be in a " kind of " shorten version : - ) . mark dougla arnold ( mdarnold @ wam . umd . edu ) offer his dissertation about the loss of verb movement in english of which a highly condense version can be find in the proceeding of nels 26 , and the proceeding of wccfl 15 . arnold , mark d . ( 1996 ) . double object construction and indirect object passive : problem pose by history " , in proceeding of wccfl 15 , pp . 1-15 . arnold , mark d . ( 1995a ) . case , periphrastic " do " , and the loss of verb movement in english " . phd dissertation , university of maryland . arnold , mark d . ( 1995b ) . " notation of economy in language chance : the spread of perphrastic " do " , in proceeding of nels 26 , pp . 121-134 . deborah arteaga ( darteaga @ nevada . edu ) have do some study on old french within the framework of minimalism , of which i only list the newest one , the other can be see on her homepage , accessible through ( http : / / www . nscee . edu : 80 / unlv / college / college _ of _ liberal _ art / foreign _ language / ) deborah artega ( to appear ) . sobre la construccus = f3n de complemento objeto doble en el franc = e9 antiguo , in : " revista de filologium francesa de la universidad complutense de madrid " . - / - . ( 1995 ) . on old french genitive construction , select proceedings from the twenty - second linguistic _ symposium on the romance language , in " contemporary research in romance linguistic : paper from the 22nd linguistic symposium on the romance language , pp . 79 - 90 . - / - . ( 1995 ) on strong and weak possessive in old french , in : " language quarterly 333 , pp . 67-80 . cassian braconnier ( cassian @ worldnet . net ) inform me about a book by jean - yve pollock which touch upon diachrony and mp . jean - yve pollock , langage et cognition , introduction au programme minimaliste de la grammaire generative , especially page 148 , 153 , 160 and 166 . mark hale ( hale1 @ alcor . concordium . ca ) inform me about an article he be just about to finish , a book of his of which the syntax portion be write in the minimalism framework , as well as about an article in the nels : mark hale ( to appear ) the diachronic implication of mimimalism , in : " interdisciplinary syntax " - / - ( to appear ) , " theory and method in historical linguistic " , blackwell stefan frisch , ( 1995 ) , evidence for economy of projection in historical change , " nels " , vol 2 . p . 191 - 203 . henrik rosenkvist ( henrik rosenkvist @ nordlund . lu . se ) contribute : eithne guilfoyle ( 1995 ) infinitival and the transparency principle revisit , in : " nels " , vol 2 . p . 205 - 209 . and lui silva - villar ( lsilvav @ uclum . edu ) tell me about his dissertation : silva - villar , lui ( 1996 ) . enclisis in northwestern iberian language : a diachronic theory . university of californium , lo angele . thank again to everyone for your contribution and interest . i ' ll eagerly accept further information on diachrony and minimalism : - ) . susann
