Subject: comparative

summary : intensification of the comparative i have in may on the list ( 8 . 758 ) a query on the intensification of comparative form in different language . here come the summary relate to the query ( i be sorry about the slight delay ! ) . as i note earlier , my better linguistic competence limit to germanic language plus finnish where in all the comparative ( of adjective , adverb , quantitative pronoun ) be typically intensify with an adverb denote some form of totality : 1 . a . the train go faster . b . the train go ever faster . ( also : all the faster ) 2 . a . der zug fuhr schneller . b . der zug fuhr immer schneller . 3 . a . ta ' get gick fortare . b . ta ' get gick allt fortare . 4 . a . juna menus lujempaa . b . juna menus yha " lujempaa . ( also : aina lujempaa ) the intensifier , e . g . ever in english , be in all these case some kind of universal quantifier , the content be approximately ' alway ' or ' all the way ' ( see e . g . vendler ) . since the pattern show some regularity , i be curious to gather information about functionally correspond expression in other language . indeed , i do receive some further parallel example , and moreover , there be some discussion about the appropriateness of the english example i have in the query ( 1b above ) . many thanks to the people who respond : ewb2 @ cornell . edu ( e . wayle browne ) larry horn < lhorn @ yalevm . ycc . yale . edu > ton van der wouden < vdwouden @ let . rug . nl > allan wechsler < awechsle @ bbn . com > knud lambrecht < lambrec @ ut . cc . utexa . edu > adiego lajara < adiego @ lingua . fil . ub . e > asya pereltsvaig < asya @ mail . netvision . net . il > " j . l . sancho , instituto de lexicografia " < sancho @ crea . ra . e > waruno mahdus < mahdus @ fhi-berlin . mpg . de > bark @ compunet . net ( gerald a . barker md ) philip grew < pgrew @ compuserve . com > as alway , my wording be a bite too implicit in the begin . there be , of course , several way of intensify ( or modify ) the comparative . a very normal form would be intensification of the degree , e . g . 5 . he be much faster than the rest of the guy . two individual possess a quality may also be compare with each other and one of the qaulity intensify in relation to the other : 6 . jack be fast but bob be even faster . perhap it be my swedish perspective that lead to the too general and implicit use of the label ' comparative intensifier ' . it seem , namely , that swedish have in allt ( see 3 above ) an adverb that may be use as an intensifier only with the comparative ( other adverb may also be use but this be a kind of a prototype , as one can understand on the basis of wessen 's grammar , for instance ) , wherea the general intensifier mycket ( ' much ' , ' very ' ) may be use both with the positive and the comparative ( type 5 then ) . the distribution be not perhap as strict in all language and with all expression . as regards , for example , finnish yha " , it may be use in other context too , but it seem that it have a more specialize ( grammaticize ? ) intensify function when modify a comparative , e . g . 7 . a . jaana on yha " kauni . time adv . ' jane be still beautiful ' b . jaanasta tulee yha " kauniimpus . intensifer ' jane become ever more beautiful ' but this show only that intensifier that merely relate to the comparative do have a temporal implication . as a consequence , it seem that the comparative express a dynamic quality ( or degree ) that be oppose to the more stable position of the positive and the superlative degree ; the comparative represent a step in one direction but not to a definite point on a scale . the temporal intensifier of the comparative focus on this implication of dynamism which , in turn , be often associate with successive development , change or process ( cf . the dynamism of verb ) . moreover , the succession be signal to be constant and ever-present - - and here we find the motivation of the universal quantifier ( literally ever ) typically use with the comprative . we may want to look at some example provide by the respondent ( the name of which be give in appropriate language section below ) : * * * * * - - dutch : 8 . a . de trein ging sneller b . de trein ging alsmaar sneller c . de trein ging steed sneller * steed * and * alsmaar * ( also write as * almaar * ) be universal temporal quantifier ( over a restrict domain - * altijd * be more unrestrictive ) . ton van der wouden - - - spanish : 9 . el tren iba cada vez ma 's ra ' pido " cada vez " , light . " each time " catalan : 10 . el tren anava cada vegada / cada cop me 's ra ` pid " cada vegada , cada cop " , light . " each time " nb : a ' , e ' etc . : vowel with acute accent ; a ` , o ` = vowel with grave accent . ignasus - xavier adiego - - - - italian : 11 . il treno andava sempre piu veloce . what i suspect will interest you here be that 's tandard ' italian ( like most other romance dialect , as i assume you will be tell by reader expert in those ) use the word that translate " alway " ( sempre ) as the comparative intensifier you ask about . philip grew - - - russian : 12 . poezd exal bystree . train go faster [ more felicitous if the individual compare to be explicit as in 13 . ] 13 . poezd exal bystree chem mashina train go faster than car 14 . poezd exal vse bystree . train go all faster ' the train go ever faster ' asya pereltsvaig - - - croatian : 15 . a . vlak je be " ao brz " e . train aux go faster - adverb b . vlak je be " ao sve brz " e ( i brz " e ) . serbian : 16 . a . voz je be " ao brz " e . b . voz je be " ao sve brz " e ( i brz " e ) . s " , z " = letter with hac " ek on top . sve ' all ' neuter singular nom . / acc . wayle browne - - - in indonesian , the situation be a bite different , compare : 17 . a . kere ' taapus berjalan lebih cepat train | go - stat | mod | fast " the train go / go faster " ( i . e . it go faster than the car , horse , other train ) b . kere ' taapus berjalan makin cepat train | go - stat | mod | fast " the train go / go ever faster " ( i . e . it go constantly faster than it itself do in the precede moment ( s ) ) where : e ' be &eacute ; ( pronounce like french &egrave ; , ipa epsilon ; ) e be pronounce like french e , ipa @ [ upside-down " e " ] ) c be pronounce like english ch , italian cus stat = stative ( express verbal " action " as state of be ) mod = modifier go / go - there be no category of tense in indonesian , and time of " action " be express circumstantially , by adverb , circumstantial phrase , etc . , also of course by context etc . so , in indonesian we do not intesify the comparative degree of comparison , but have a distinct accelerative " degree of comparison " . the complete paradigm be : comparative : _ lebih cepat _ " faster " accelerative : _ makin cepat _ " ever faster " intensive : _ sangat cepat _ " very fast " superlative : _ pale cepat _ " ( the ) fastest " excessive : _ terlalu cepat _ " too fast " insufficient : _ kurang cepat _ " not fast enough " negative : _ tidak cepat _ " not fast " strictly speak , of course , this should probably not be see as the set of form of degree of comparison , but a set of adjectival modifier in combination with an adjective . waruno mahdus * * * * the above case confirm the pattern that comparative form tend to be intensify with a universal quatifier if its dynamic implication be to be amplify . the term ' accelerative ' in context of indonesian be illustrative - - although not totally accurate : it be also the only adjectival modification category that be associate with the comparative in the translation ( apart from comparative ' proper ' ) . one could think that the discuss expression represent a " special case " of comparison , since there be not usually any explicit reference point in the expression of the ' ever faster ' type ( i . e . a than - complement ) . that be why browne term the use " free comparative " . on the other hand , there be nothing unusual in the use of this comparative ; it seem to be an application of the temporal comparative as in , for instance : 18 . jack have become faster than before . koenig suggest instead the term " cumulative comparative " , since the development be relate to the temporal and the reference be often clearly enough understand in the context ( the term could be better for the indonesian ' accelerative ' too ) : 19 . jack have become ever faster . could in principle be a thinkable notional parallel to 18 ( cf . also 17b above ) . now , 19 ( and 1b for that matter ) may be a bite odd for english speaker , have see the reaction on ever in my original query . ever be as an intensifier consider to be " stilt , literary , old-fashion , high-style " , regard as inference from german immer , or by american label as " british " . instead , most speaker prefer a semantically correspond expression consist of conjoin syntactic reduplication : 20 . jack have become / become faster and faster . dictionary and grammar of english also note this construction with the comparative ( zandvoort give it even a name , " comparative of gradation " ) , so the expressive pattern can be regard as quite establish in english . it be not unique , though . most european language allow the pattern comp + and + comp at least in informal register , and , i may reveal it now , these kind of expression be the object of study in my research on syntactic reduplication in swedish . the principally interest thing be that language seem to have different preference as regards different intensify pattern . english be perhap most liberal in rather freely allow conjoin repetition of type 20 , wherea koenig point out that german prefer expression with an intensifier ( immer ) . the datum i have survey seem to suggest that swedish be somewhere in between these two . the pattern comp + and + comp be theoretically interest in that it express the same content as ever by iconicity . repetition stand for iteration and continuity ( ever , allt , sempre , yha " , cada vez ) , coordination enhance the mean , since it imply with repetition non-simultaneity and asymmetry . even more intrigue be that some linguist ( e . g . koenig , lang ) draw a parallel between coordination and universal quantification . so we have a full circle here . as a final remark , i would like to remind that structure of the kind x + and + x be not limit to the comparative . it be quite usual to hear the use of this pattern with , for instance , verb in colloquial speech : 21 . jack run and run . however , the use have not for some reason become as widely establish with verb . perhap there be a larger resource of aspectual verbal and adverbial modifier for verb than the comparative , and , thus , less need for the somehow ' naive ' iterative pattern . the last assesment do not come out of the blue , but it be traditionally state that different use of repetition be typical of , not only the language of poetry , but also among woman and child or in text design for child , such as fairy tale ( note : this be merely a quote - - i would not put it in this way ! ) . what do this amount to ? reasonably , repetition be favor in discourse type where ( inter - ) personal involvement have an important role . further comment on the topic be , of course , welcome . the above summary be write in a relative haste , so i apologize for any shortcoming or misunderstanding ! the end of this message contain a list of work refer to . thank you for your interest and have a nice summer ! ( which have be real warm and sunny up here . . . ) jan k . lindstrom scandinavian language and literature university of helsinkus finland reference : browne , wayle . 1964 . on adjectival comparison and reduplication in english . unpublish manuscript . koenig , ekkehard . 1971 . kumulative komparative . in : beitraege zur generativen grammatik . schriften zur linguistik 3 . pp . 100-111 . lang , ewald . 1984 . the semantics of coordination . john benjamin , amsterdam . vendler , zeno . 1967 . each and every and all . in : linguistic in philosophy . cornell university press , ithaca , london . wessen , elia . 1970 . vaart svenska spraak . almqvist & wiksell , stockholm . zandvoort , r . w . 1975 ( 1962 ) . a handbook of english grammar . 7th ed . longman , london .
