Subject: asllrp / signstream

the american sign language linguistic research project involve researcher from boston university , gallaudet university , and rutger university work together on the syntax of asl . in addition , in collaboration with dartmouth college , we be develop a tool call signstream for the code and analysis of video-base datum . general information about this project be available at our web site : < http : / / www . bu . edu / asllrp / ; . a number of report and doctoral dissertation be now available in portable document format ( pdf ) and can be download from this site : bahan , b . ( 1996 ) non - manual realization of agreement in american sign language . doctoral dissertation , boston university , boston , ma . maclaughlin , d . ( 1997 ) the structure of determiner phrase : evidence from american sign language . doctoral dissertation , boston university , boston , ma . maclaughlin , d . , c . neidle , and r . g . lee ( 1996 ) design specification for signstream , a multimedium database tool for language research . asllrp report no . 3 . neidle , c . , d . maclaughlin , b . bahan , r . g . lee , and j . kegl ( 1997 ) the signstream project . asllrp report no . 5 . neidle , c . , d . maclaughlin , j . kegl , and b . bahan ( 1996 ) non - manual correlate of syntactic agreement in american sign language . asllrp report no . 2 . * note that digitize movie demonstrate the grammatical example be provide . neidle , c . , d . maclaughlin , and r . g . lee , ed . ( 1997 ) syntactic structure and discourse function : an examination of two construction in american sign language . asllrp report no . 4 . [ content : hoza , neidle , maclaughlin , kegl , and bahan , a unify syntactic account of rhetorical question in american sign language ; and lee , neidle , maclaughlin , bahan , and kegl , role shift in asl : a syntactic look at direct speech . ] with respect to the signstream project < http : / / www . bu . edu / asllrp / signstream > , we would be especially interest to receive feedback as to feature that potential user ( linguist work with video-base datum ) may find useful , to assist us with ongo design and development .
