Subject: forward : ucla job / temporary ( 97-98 )

ucla job / temporary ( 97-98 ) priority normal the ucla department of linguistic expect to have several short-term job available teach various course in the come academic year ( 1997-98 ) . most of the position be in the area of syntax , though we will hire in other area too . these be all replacement position , for faculty who be on leave , and there be no realistic prospect of any of them develop into permanent position . some of the course that need to be teach be undergraduate class , while other be graduate class . at least three , and possibly as many as five course will involve syntax course at various level , rang from introductory undergraduate syntactic analysis to advance graduate seminar . our most press need in these area be during the fall and winter quarter ( see below for an outline of quarter date ) . in addition , we may need an instructor for two lower-division introductory course in general linguistics in the winter and / or spring quarter ; one of these be a generic intro to linguistic ; the other be a course survey the language spoken in the usa , include immigrant language , american indian language , and dialect of english and spanish , cover phonetics , history , and sociolinguistic issue , among other . finally , we will have opening for advance graduate course in some of the subfield represent in our department - - such as phonology , phonetics , psycholinguistic , computational ling . , syntax , semantics , specific language area ( such as african , american indian , etc . ) for these advance graduate course , we be primarily interest in hire relatively senior people with establish reputation ( e . g . people who be on leave and who be interest in visit ucla ) , though more junior applicant will also be consider . because we have a large number of course available for visitor to teach next year , we be quite flexible in term of the type and level of appointment . in particular , we may be interest in hire some people for single-course lectureship ( pay in the neighborhood of $ 7 , 0 to $ 10 , 0 per 10 - week course , depend on seniority ) ; we may also consider full-time appointment for period of one or two term , with a courseload of 2 course per term , and pay level per course roughly comparable to those mention above . finally , we may make appointment with less than full-time teach load ( e . g . teach one course and co-teach another ) . these visit position be not restrict as to rank . we be especially interest in hire faculty from other university who plan to be on leave during ( part of ) the come academic year and who may be interest in visit our department for part of the year and teach a course ( or two ) while they be here . each course run for ten week ( with two 2 - hour lecture per week ) follow by an exam week . applicant should send a letter of application , include a cv , a statement of previous teach experience , as well as the name , address , and phone number of three recommender to : tim stowell ( chair ) , department of linguistic , ucla , lo angele , ca 90095-1543 . ( actual letter of recommendation should not be send at this time ; likewise candidate should not send voluminous dossier of publication , etc . ) application for fall quarter course should be receive by aug . 15 1997 , and application for winter and spring quarter course should be receive by sept . 10 1997 , though late application will also be consider as long as the position remain unfil . potential applicant be strongly encourage to inform us by e-mail , as soon as possible , of their intention to apply for these position . initial enquiry by email may be direct to tim stowell ( stowell @ uclum . edu ) or to anna meyer ( meyer @ humnet . uclum . edu ) . ucla is an equal opportunity employer . - - - - - - - - - - tim stowell chair , ucla department of linguistic 405 hilgard ave . lo angele , ca 90095-1543 usa phone : 1-310 - 825-0634 fax : 1-310 - 206-5743 e - mail : stowell @ uclum . edu
