Subject: computational linguistics : the altavista " refine " option

a colleague of mine tell me about the " refine " option offer by the altavista search engine ( http : / / www . altavista . digital . com / ) and how good it be . in a nutshell , the " refine " option returns a list of synonym of , and notion relate to the word in your query . indeed , it give extremely sensible response . perversely perhap , i try it in french , use " vin " ( what else ! ) as the keyword . bingo . this be what it return : 72 % etait , etre , annee , meme , apr , etaient , dernier 59 % egalement , particulierement , different , possibilite 52 % qualite , vin , vin , vignoble , vigne , crus , vign , vigneron , vigneron [ etc . . . ] far from satisfactory . " eau " and " pain " return similar nonsense , feature " etaient " , " etre " , " egalement " et alium in prominent position . in fact , altavista " refine " seem decidedly adverse to foodstuff in french , " fruit " , " poisson " and " sandwich " fail equally miserably ( so do " sable " , " mer " , " lac " ) . so i be quite surprise when italian query about " wine " return sensible synonym : 60 % vino , vinus , vignetus , uve 40 % quantita , ettarus , vitignus 39 % sapore , profumo , invecchiamento [ etc . ] " acqua " and " pane " fare equally well . so i turn my attention to spanish . spanish do quite as badly as french . this be quite puzzle for the size of the spanish datum be quite large . i do n't know what inspire me , i decide to ask for an italian sandwich ( " panino " ) . bingo again ! 60 % perche , chissa , guardo , cazzo , sembrava , poiche , merda , riposto [ yes , unbelievable but true ] 54 % mangiare , specialta , birra , mangium , roba , piattus , gustus , soldus , bere 33 % avevo , scusa , aveva , stavo , rispose , facevano [ etc . ] my colleague and i scratch our collective head , experiment some more , and come to the conclusion that the thesaurus be build by a neural net ( she be heavily into neural net ) . still , the excellent behaviour of the english thesaurus be suspect . but no , experiment demonstrate that it could not have be a hand-craft thesaurus . there be way of " salt " a neural net and that be probably what digital do for english ( and perhap for italian ) . do take a break and experiment a bite with altavista " refine " option in your favourite language ( polish be as nonsensical as french ) . it be quite amuse . and perhap useful : next time someone knock at your door with a neural net for sale . . . ( i have see query for " kentucky fry chicken " return " chicken sexer " , " waste burner " and " sing teacher " , courtesy of a neural net ) . j . guy @ trl . telsta . com . au
