Subject: job post : korean lexicographer ( microsoft )

computational linguist for korean the nlp group in microsoft research be look for a computational lexicographer for korean . the position will be locate on the microsoft central campus in redmond , washington , usa . this be a great opportunity to work with a dedicate group of researcher who be create a system for unrestrict text understand and generation . responsibilities : the lexicographer 's primary responsibility include develop and maintain the morphological rule and datum for the language , in accordance with the overall system architecture use by the microsoft research nlp group . qualifications : the lexicographer 's qualification should include experience in linguistic research and online dictionary development , program experience , keen interest in lexical issue , and an advance degree in linguistics or a closely relate discipline . native proficiency in korean be assume . a practical orientation be highly desirable . significant program experience or experience extract lexical information from online dictionary or corpus would be a plus . about the microsoft nlp research group : we be in the process of design and build a system to analyze unrestrict natural language , take input text , and move from lexical / morphological analysis through syntax , semantics , and eventually pragmatic and discourse . a generation component be also plan . the program system and underlie principle that be use for english have be find to be applicable to other language . we be empirically orient , and be happy to use good linguistic idea wherever they can be find . a reasonable first-version summary of our technique and some of our experience can be find in the book " natural language process : the plnlp approach , " kluwer academic publisher , boston , 1993 . for more information about the nlp group , connect to our home page on the world wide web . http : / / www . research . microsoft . com / research / nlp contact : please send resume , cover letter , and any additional material to : steven clyne human resource microsoft corporation one microsoft way redmond , wa 98052 usa email : stevecl @ microsoft . com
