Subject: position in speech & hear science

position : professor ( full , associate , or assistant ) ph . d . program in speech and hearing sciences the graduate school and university center , locate in midtown manhattan , be part of the city university of new york , the nation 's largest public urban university . over 4000 student be enroll in 32 doctoral program and 7 master 's program . the ph . d . program in speech and hear science , with approximately 75 student , be one of the most distinguish in the country . this position , begin in september 1998 , be for a professor specialize in the neurophysiological aspect of language production and / or process . the successful individual will be able to develop and sustain a research program , to teach , and to supervise dissertation in these area . a history of external fund for research or the potential to obtain fund be desire . the candidate should have a strong background in linguistics or psycholinguistic and an interest in clinical population . the individual must have a record of empirical and scholarly publication in one or more area of the neurophysiology of language . qualifications : require : ph . d . or equivalent in the discipline from an accredit university , a substantial record of research and publication , excellence in teach , and experience supervise doctoral student . review of application will begin october 1 , 1997 . send a letter of application , curriculum vita , sample publication , and three letter of reference to : professor richard g . schwartz ph . d . program in speech and hear science cuny graduate school and university center 33 west 42 street new york , ny 10036 rschwart @ email . gc . cuny . edu the city university of new york be an eo / aa / ada / irca employer richard g . schwartz , ph . d . ph . d . program in speech and hear science city university of new york graduate school and university center 33 west 42 street new york , ny 10036 usa rschwart @ email . gc . cuny . edu phone : ( 212 ) 642-2352 fax : ( 212 ) 642-2379
