Subject: software developer for nlp project ( microsoft )

software developer for nlp project the nlp group in microsoft research be look for a software developer . the position will be locate on the microsoft central campus in redmond , washington , usa . this be a great opportunity to work with a dedicate group of researcher who be create a system for unrestrict text understand and generation . responsibilities : the nlp group have create an underlie architecture and tool base on our english system . we now have linguist work to extend the system to european and far east language , and this require significant change to the underlie code base , and ( equally important ) to the tool that the linguist use . the developer 's primary responsibility will be to provide whatever change or tool the linguist need in order to proceed with linguistic development . this include ( but be not restrict to ) modify the tool for create grammar and morphology system to handle aspect of non - english language as they come up , enhance the tool for lexicographic work across seven language , and do datum and dictionary conversion . qualifications : the developer 's qualification should include professional c + + program experience and a strong background in nlp . experience with non - english language , unicode issue , and microsoft tool be desirable . about the microsoft nlp research group : we be in the process of design and build a system to analyze unrestrict natural language , take input text , and move from lexical / morphological analysis through syntax , semantics , and eventually pragmatic and discourse . a generation component be also plan . the program system and underlie principle that be use for english have be find to be applicable to other language . we be empirically orient , and be happy to use good linguistic idea wherever they can be find . a reasonable first-version summary of our technique and some of our experience can be find in the book " natural language process : the plnlp approach , " kluwer academic publisher , boston , 1993 . for more information about the nlp group , connect to our home page on the world wide web . http : / / www . research . microsoft . com / research / nlp contact : please send resume , cover letter , and any additional material to : steven clyne human resource microsoft corporation one microsoft way redmond , wa 98052 usa email : stevecl @ microsoft . com
