Subject: job opening

job opening re - post : we have now fill one of these position , but be still accept application . if you have interest in the position , please do n't hesitate to call me at ( 309 ) 675-7339 . - - christine kamprath caterpillar inc . , the world 's lead manufacturer of heavy earthmove equipment , and a major publisher and translator of technical publication worldwide , have three job openings for people to work on various aspect of implement their automate machine translation ( amt ) system in their production write and translate work environment . the three position be these : 1 . caterpillar technical english ( cte ) language trainer 2 . cte language mentor 3 . amt coordinator the caterpillar amt system rely on control english input ( to be write in cte , a rich subset of the vocabulary and grammatical structure of english tailor to the need of caterpillar 's technical document ) , which be monitor by sophisticate linguistic software to be use by the writer as he / she write technical document . the cte language trainer and mentor will be expect to acquire a thorough understand of cte and the linguistic edit software , assist in prepare and maintain train material and in develop write guideline , and provide assistance and mentore to technical writer as they learn to use cte and the software . the trainer will conduct train class for the technical write staff . in addition to these train role , the people fill these two position will assist the cte / amt team in the ongo development and maintenance of cte and the edit software . the role of the amt coordinator in the amt process be to oversee test and integration of the amt system into the translation document production environment . the amt coordinator be to design and monitor quality assurance test of amt output , identify and collect problem report , and oversee route and resolution of the issue raise . the amt coordinator will thus need to acquire a thorough knowledge of cte vocabulary and grammar , the cte edit software , amt grammar mechanism , and the amt software , as well as have a familiarity with hardware and system issue . in addition to these task , the amt coordinator will assist the cte / amt team in the ongo development and maintenance of the cte and amt system . minimally these position involve the task list here . however , people with greater background in linguistics and nlp would have the opportunity to participate deeply in these aspect of the project . this project be groundbreak its scope and in its use of sgml tag within sentence to be parse and translate . candidate for all three position should possess knowledge and experience of general linguistic principle ; innovative interest in author and edit issue , substantive experience and / or ability in train and mentore in grammar and software use , and excellent write skill . the position require a ba or ma in linguistic , english , or relate discipline , skill in the above-mention area , and native-speaker competence of english . a knowledge of sgml tag , natural language process issue and principle , and the terminology and mechanic of the heavy machinery industry would be very helpful . in addition , the amt coordinator position require familiarity with translation issue of at least one of the language address by the amt system ( romance language , german , russian ) . application , include a curriculum vita or resume and the name of three reference , should be send to : dr . christine kamprath , senior computational linguist amt / cte project technical information division build n1-a180 600 w . washington street east peorium , il 61630-0371 screen for these position have begin ; the position will be staff as soon as qualify candidate be find . application may be send by fax or mail ; query will be accept by phone or e-mail as well . e-mail : ckkz8d1 @ cat . com or ckampra @ heartland . bradley . edu fax : ( 309 ) 675-9773 phone : ( 309 ) 675-7339
