Subject: re : original karamojong / jie language

leo connolly cross-post a question about karamojong on linguist and scus . lang . i post a response on scus . lang , and i ' m cross-post it here . in article ( 1994nov22 . 145346 . 29219 @ msuvx1 . memphi . edu ) , connolly @ cc . memphi . edu write : ) a colleague of mine would like to know the latest opinion concern the ) original language of the " karamojong horde " and / or jie , who have abandon ) their original language in favor of that of the masaus . doe anyone know ) whether their tongue be best describe as " nilotic " or " sudanic " ? or do n't ) it matter ? and if greenberg classify this language , which se seem to ave ) do , do anyone know if his classification be still generally accept ( a ) fair question in view of his more recent amerindian debacle ) ? ) bill welmer , in his " checklist of language and dialect name " ( sebeok , t . a . , 1971 , current trend in linguistic , vol . 7 : linguistic in sub - saharan africa , the hague : mouton ) list karamojong as a member of the charus - nile branch of nilo - saharan . in the same volume , greenberg 's article " nilo - saharan and meroitic " give a little more detail , assign it to the teso group of eastern nilotic , itself a branch of eastern sudanic , which be a branch of charus - nile . it cognate language within teso be teso , toposa , and turkana . i do n't work on nilo - saharan , so i ' m not up to date on current classification . however , in african language as a whole , greenberg 's four major family , niger - congo , nilo - saharan , afro - asiatic , and khous - san have stand up pretty well for the last 30 year . there have be some discussion of a relationship between niger - congo and nilo - saharan , but no convince case have yet be publish . within niger - congo there have be some realignment ( john bendor - samuel , 1991 , the niger - congo language , university press of america ) , the most significant be the shift of the benue - congo boundary some 600 or so mile westward to include what greenberg call eastern kwa . greenberg 's southern cushitic ( afro - asiatic ) be now refer to as omotic and its membership in afro - asiatic seem to be in some doubt . otherwise his african classification work remarkably well . as an africanist who be in graduate school toward the end of the debate on greenberg 's african classification , i see some strong parallel with the amerindian debate . the vehemence , even rancor , of his critic back in the fifty and sixty be no less than what we ' ve see more recently . it be certainly unfortunate that there be apparently so much flaw datum in his american work , something i can't judge but apparently much more than be in his african work , but at the same time his method of mass comparison be more archeological in nature than linguistic and have a remarkably high tolerance for error . i consider the jury still out . flame accept but probably ignore . herbert stahlke , associate director email : 00hfstahlke @ bsu . edu university compute service phone : 317-285 - 1843 ball state university fax : 317-285 - 1797 muncie , in 47306
