Subject: esl in child cut off from their native language - any insight ?

2 year ago , my wife and i adopt two kid from russium , at the time age 6 . 5 and 5 . at the time , i informally ask around and get the impression that there be unlikely to be anything particularly interest linguistically about their experience in learn english , and be refer to several book on esl / 2nd language learn among immigrant . unfortunately , due to the joy of parent , i never read most of the reference i be give ( i spend the time try to learn russian instead ) . i recently read something in another adoptive parent 's post experience that make me again wonder about my kid ' experience in learn english , which so far have apparently be a little unusual for adoptive kid ( i ' ll skip the detail at this point in my inquiry ) . i be start to wonder if there be indeed something important in the language experience of kid adopt into a foreign language environment after infancy . the key difference between international adoption and other esl situation be that the older adopt kid suddenly be cut off from input in their native language with a certain level of vocabulary and mastery of that language , and throw into an esl / 2nd language situation where they learn a new language usually with no support in their native language . learn the new language take a considerable amount of time - my kid could communicate only minimally in english for about a year , but for most adoptive kid , use of the 1st language seem to stop within 1 - 3 month since the kid seem to realize that it no longer serve any useful communicative function . after 2 year , my kid speak what to most people sound like fluent idiomatic english . however , their vocabulary seem greatly restrict compare to native english kid their age - and their passive vocabulary ( word they understand that they do n't use themselve ) seem to be especially restrict . they also have some peculiarity in grammar and usage - perhap those typical of second language speaker , but ignore in the adoptive kid since they speak with no trace of an accent . these problem seem to be especially persistent , probably because they pass unnotice most of the time ( they do show up in the kid ' write now ) and they be resistent to correction . my reading in linguistics have thus far all seem to generalize about a critical period last past my kid ' age , where they be suppose to learn language like a sponge . the other adoptive parent , however , post that in talk with esl expert , she find out that " esl learner generally cannot do phonics in the second language , nor can they follow along in group oral read . it take 7 to 11 year in the second language to develop the ability to manipulate write english , particularly abstract cognitive academic material . " that poster also say that child completely remove from their native language " before master all of its principle " have especial problem in learn the new language . she also say that many of the normal esl procedure break down in such kid , that there be no good test for diagnose language and learn problem in such kid , and that the situation be enough unlike the normal esl situation that train esl teacher may not recognize problem or know how to solve them . she give several reference , but mostly on the pragmatic " how to help your kid " level . but put on my linguist hat , and read between the line , i come up with some question that i put to the linguistic community : 1 . is anyone read this do any research relate to language acquisition in kid cut off from their native tongue in the formative year ? 2 . can anyone provide me reference to such work ? 3 . whether i get answer to # 1 or # 2 , what year be the " formative year " in which cut off the child from the native language will have an effect on 2nd language learn ? 4 . doe this age range have any relation to the " critical period " of language learn ? might there be a correlation that would tell us something about how and why kid learn language differently and more easily than adult ? 5 . what be the different effect of cut off a child from his native language at different age / stage in language formation ? it seem pretty obvious that at the earliest year , " 2nd language " learn would asymptotically approach identity with the learn of the first language . 6 . when 1st and 2nd language have contrast feature , it would seem that these kid would provide especial insight into ug model with parameter , in addition provide some clue as to when and how the parameter be set . has anyone look at this ? 7 . what be the long-term language prognosis for such kid ? 7 to 11 year of language difficulty , when the difficulty often go unnotice ( or at least the fact that the difficulty be due to language problem - the adoptive parent who post give a detail chronicle of her daughter 's vary problem from adoption at age 4 until 5th grade when the parent finally come to find out why her daughter be have problem even though she speak english fluently ) - this seem likely to have severe long-term effect . 8 . my kid and all other i know of have completely lose the native language except for word isolate . do such kid relearn their native language any easier when they get older ? again , look at contrast feature that such kid have difficulty relearn may tell us a lot about " parameter set " especially when the difficulty do not match those of other acquire the language as a 2nd langusge with no prior experience in the language . kid cut off from the native language would seem more likely to give clear datum on this . 9 . are the effect of be cut-off from one 's native language different in kid like mine ? my kid be cut off from the native language only incompletely - they still have each other to talk to , in addition to my wife and my rudimentary self-teach - but all of this continue exposure to the native language be impoverish both in vocabulary and grammar . ) russian remain the language of our household for most of the kid ' first year here , and i quickly come to understand the difference in language at differ age . i could understand and communicate with my kid quite well ( and fluently ) in russian after about a month , but still cannot understand even a slow talk russian adult . the type of error kid tolerate ( and make - my kid often have the ' wrong ' declensional end on irregular word ) seem quite different from what adult accept . 10 . are there any english language discussion about child language acquisition in russian kid ? ( i ' m sure there be russian language source , but i would never get through them . ) i would like to know what the typical russian child at the age my kid be adopt would typically have master in feature like declension , number , perfective / imperfective distinction , and proper use of case - thing that i have n't master well enough to be able to extract from relisten to tape thaty i make while they still speak russian fluently . lojbab lojbab @ access . digex . net bob lechevalier , president , the logical language group , inc . 2904 beau lane , fairfax va 22031-1303 usa 703-385 - 187 for the artificial language loglan / lojban , see ftp . c . yale . edu / pub / lojban or see lojban www server : href = " http : / / xiron . pc . helsinkus . fus / lojban / "
