Subject: sum : computer transcription

a couple of month ago , i ask the member of this list for help regard software for the transcription of speak discourse . i receive a large number of answer , some to my personal e-mail address , some ' public ' . in the follow i shall quote some of the answer and attempt to sum up what i consider to be the most important info receive on the matter : perhap slightly off the subject a few answer speak of the possibility for machine-readable text : quote : ' a company name norri communication ( san diego , ca ) sell a digital recorder that break down audio input into machine readable code ( include ascius i assume ) ' ' norri be repute to be only one of two company in the usa ( maybe the world ) manufacture digital audio recorder use so-cal " flash chip " ( semiconductor memory chip that permit both read and write function ) . the digitize flash memory can be " dump " to a pc in machine readable code ( which i assume would include ascius compatibility - - that 's my assumption ) . i do n't have an address , but i get their telephone number from directory assistance . the company be locate in a suburb of san diego , californium call poway , californium . the list telephone number be 619-679 - 1504 . if that do n't work for some reason , directory assistance can be reach at 619-555 - 1212 . ' a number of answer center around use standard word processor ' macro facility : quote : ' i use to do this quite satisfactorily on the pc use ms word with glossary item to quickly input speaker identification , special character sequence , etc . use a style sheet for control format . i imagine that word perfect for the pc can do the same thing , especially with its macro . ' ' i ' ve make a set of macro 's which operate on a standardize form to facilitate the transcribe process . essentially what i do be simply reduce all routinely occur series of keystroke to one alt - or control - key . ' most transcription software seem to be available for the mac : quote : ' for the macintosh i would definitely use nisus with a macro that have be assign a short and easy to type keyboard shortcut . from little thing like this to far more complex task , nisus be amaze . it be truly the power user 's and linguist 's word processor of choice . from what i have see , it be also the most worldscript - savvy word processor available . if you have n't see it , check out the new nisuswriter 4 . 0 which should be ship very soon if not already . ' more info may be available from this internet address : nisus . mktg @ applelink . apple . com syncwriter : quote : ' the mac - programme you mention be syncwriter , i guess . it cost some hundr german mark ' syncwriter be sell by : med - i-bit , hohenfelderstrasse 20 , 22087 hamburg , germany ( phone + 49 40 251 67 125 ) . workbench : quote : ' you be welcome to include the workbench in your summary . however , as you know the bench be not really a transcription program , though it have some feature for make transcribe easier - - e . g . the transcription keypad ( with user definable string and ca symbol ) and the ability to link and play in a loop quicktime movie audio tape . also , do mention that distribution be limit at this time . the bench be now available on the world wide web . ' for further info , try contact : thebench @ alishaw . ucsb . edu for dos - base computer : hiat-dos 2 . 2 : quote : ' hiat-dos be develop as a transcription programme everybody can afford ; that be why it lack certain technical gimmick . the price of the new version be somewhat between 40 and 80 german mark ( as far as i know ) ; it be distribute by ' : prof . konrad ehlich institut fuer deutsch al fremdsprache lmu muenchen ludwigstrasse 27 d-80359 muenchen fax : germany-089 / 21802116 . quote : ' hiat-dos be a kind of word process program design for process transcript ; thus you ' ve get a certain format in which you fill the transcript , you ' ve get certain special correction device etc . it 's a simple tool which be more comfortable for transcription purpose than word process program , that 's all . ' recommend read : ehlich , konrad ( 1992 ) hiat - a transcription system for discourse datum . in : edward , jane a . / lampert , martin d . ( ed . ) talk datum . hillsdale n . j . : erlbaum . a couple of other program ( mac and dos ) be mention , but they seem to be unfinish so far . why be it that noone have develop a user-friendly window - base transcription program ? the above mention transcription program all use the text / music score principle , i . e . , the conversation be print in ' run ' system . if you , as i do myself , use standard line transcription , there seem to be very little help out there to save you from adjust a lot whenever you make any change or correction to your transript . one possibility may be a system of macro - perhap this call for further discussion in this forum ? ? ? thank you to everyone for your cooperation , karsten gramkow karsten gramkow centre for language and intercultural study aalborg university havrevangen 1 dk - 9000 aalborg denmark ph . : + 45 98 15 42 11 , ext . 6229 fax : + 45 98 16 65 66 e-mail : gramkow @ hum . auc . dk
