Subject: university of alabama , ma-tesol program

the department of english of the university of alabama invite application for a tenure track assistant professor position in our m . a . - tesol program , start in august of 1995 . duty include teach ( 2 course / semester ) , research and service ; our m . a . - tesol faculty work closely with our colleague in ua 's english language institute ( eli ) . a ph . d . in apply linguistics or tesol be require , with strength in language teach methodology and second language acquisition theory . competence in at least one other language be expect , and international teach experience be highly desirable . preference will be give to candidate who have an interest in work with our faculty in rhetoric and composition , and who would welcome collaboration with colleague in foreign language department through our emerge m . a . t . program in the college of art and science . we will also give preference to candidate with an interest in classroom-orient research , who see research opportunity in ( 1 ) our large freshman composition program with separate section for non-native english speaker , ( 2 ) ua 's independently-administer intensive eli with a large internal program and frequent external program , and ( 3 ) ua 's well-develop self-instructional language program ( critical language ) . locate on the black warrior river in west-central alabama , tuscaloosa be a university town of about 100 , 0 people with a mild climate and reasonable live cost . we be 50 mile southwest of birmingham and within a half day 's drive of atlanta , the great smoky mountain , nashville , memphi , new orlean and the gulf coast . send letter of application , c . v . , name of 3 reference , and any representative publication to catherine davy , chair of the tesol search committee , dept . of english , box 870244 , university of alabama , tuscaloosa , alabama , 35487-0244 . the university of alabama be an affirmative action / equal opportunity employer . the search will remain open until the position be fill ; however , the search committee will begin review application on dec . 1 , 1994 . there be a possibility that we may interview at the lsa meet in new orlean ( as well as at the aaal / tesol meeting in long beach if necessary ) ; applicant should let us know about their conference plan . catherine e . davy dept . of english , box 870244 university of alabama tuscaloosa , alabama 35487-0244 ( 205 ) 348-9522
