Subject: re : 5 . 1305 qs : canadian american , ipa - font for dos , genre analysis ,

it may be of general interest to note some difference between canadian and american accent , bear in mind that both type of accent vary quite a bite , and that what be characteristic of some part of canada may be characteristic of some part of the us . for example , one of the most widespread characteristic of canadian english be the merger of short o and long open o , e . g . , hock v . hawk . although this be also characteristic of certain area of the us , they be generally not contiguous with the canadian area of the merger . thus , most of the us border area with canada maintain a distinction . this , then , be a strike contrast , geographically , between canada and the adjacent us at most point . the stereotypical canadian feature , for canadian themselve , and for other who know ( include those who must have hand the canadian their self-stereotype ) be the pronunciation of / aw / as in " out " , " house " , etc . the nucleus be mid rather than low , so that it sound something like long o as in " oat " as speak by standard british or philadelphian speaker . commonality between canada and the adjacent us , similar to the last mention feature , be the raise of the nucleus of / ay / as in " right " . this seem to keep get discuss in the context of cause a vowel contrast between " writer " and " rider " . the canadian and upstate ny contrast have to do with height along the center of vowel space , rather than along the periphery ( central v . back nucleus ) as in new york city . upstate ny at least , though , seem to be distinct in canada by the more extreme raise of the nucleus of / ay / , and it often sound front , as if like a more widespread american / ey / sound , as in " eight " . canada be more extreme than the adjacent us in its raise ( from low to mid ) of the / aw / nucleus - the stereotype i discuss above . i have not see discussion elsewhere of how canadian english deal with short o before r in open syllable . more than most american dialect , it lengthen and raise them to merge with long o , so that " sorry " rhyme with " story " . this be rare for the word " sorry " , " sorrow " , " borrow " and a few other across us dialect , although it be general in r-ful area for " forest " , " orange " and most such word . in this case , the adjacent us dialect , e . g . , northern wisconsin , agree with canada , so that there be a continuum , not the strike border distinction observe for the hock : hawk merger . that 's enough , although i welcome observation on other and more localise canadian and border us dialect . as for the british , when they have an american actor and do n't want to make anything out of the fact that he 's american in a film , they call him canadian - - in order to explain the accent . apparently they do n't hear the difference - - i guess they only hear flap t 's , but think american have to be stereotype as character , while canadian have more latitude .
