Subject: re : 5 . 1344 native speaker intuition

the discussion on native speaker intuition have be extremely interest , but i worry that my brief intervention may have muddy the waters . i take it that there be a number of separable issue . the first be the extent to which a native speaker be likely to judge a lexical string as grammatical or ungrammatical per se . the second be concern with the relationship between syntax and interpretation ( although even here the distinction may not be entirely clear cut ) . most english speaker would probably judge child teacher the the ask leave to room the as both ungrammatical and uninterpretable . however , my couple of sentence ( which be from a source that i no longer recall - apology ! ) raise slightly different issue . if it be possible to interpret the follow : 1 . the child ask the teacher to leave the room 2 . the teacher ask the child to leave the room as have the same consequence ( i . e . that it be the child who leave the room ) then it seem to me that the relationship between grammatical representation and interpretation be inherently unstable . just because some native speaker solve the problem in one way should not override the empirical fact that other native speaker solve it in another way . if we take the string : 3 . i would ' ve do it . and the emphatice assertion : 4 . i really would have / of ( / ov / ) it would seem that , on the evidence of ( some ) british speaker ' phonology , have = of . i . e . , they treat of as a verb in some circumstance . as prescriptivist , we can tell them that they be wrong , and explain ( by analogy ? ) why they be wrong . as descripivist , though , it seem that we have to take such native-speaker intuition at their face value . in the latter case , we be leave with a conundrum and one that seem to me particularly relevant to the problem of second language teach : who is a native speaker ? for what it be worth , i have try to explore these issue more detail in ' language and the linguist ' , _ social semiotic _ ( 1993 ) , 3 , 2 , 161-181 tony bex
