Subject: uk linguist : invitation

i be forward the follow message on behalf of the people who be responsible for inspect teach in all our linguistics department . please circulate to colleague who do n't subscribe to linguist . xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx " 18 november 1994 1995-96 higher education quality assessment programme as you may be aware , the higher education fund council for england ( hefce ) be require under the term of the further and higher education act 1992 to secure that provision be make for assess the quality of education in institution for whose activity they provide financial support . the council have welcome this obligation and see assessment of education as a vitally important part of its work . assessment be carry out within specific subject area and assessor , who be expert in their field , visit institution to judge the quality of the student learn experience that they observe . one of the eight subject to be cover in the 1995-96 programme be linguistic . other subject which be include and which could be link in assessment with linguistic be german & relate language , french , russian & eastern european language , italian , and iberian . the subject specialist assessor must have industrial , commercial or professional experience in their subject , couple with a broad knowledge of higher education : it be unlikely that anyone at a junior level will have sufficient authority . the minimum commitment will be to take part in four assessment visit between april 1995 and september 1996 ( a total commitment of 20 day of which just 14 will require an absence from the workplace ) . each specialist assessor will be pay a per diem rate of l150 include vat , and travel and subsistence cost will be meet by the council . full train will , of course , be receive by assessor aim at develop their assessment skill . this focus particular attention on role and use of self-assessment , and on the conduct of assessment activity , include the protocol to be observe when carry out assessment visit . further particulars on the role of subject specialist assessor can be find in circular 33 / 94 which have be send to all he institution in england , scotland and northern ireland . if any member of your association would be interest in become assessor , or even simply in find out more about the role of an assessor without commit themselve , there be an informal meet on 5 december in london and two other on 6 and 12 december in birmingham at which they would be most welcome . in which case , please contact shirley cook on 186 317461 as soon as possible . " xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx please do not send inquiry etc to me - i ' m just the postman ! dick hudson dept of phonetic and linguistic , university college london , gower street , london wc1e 6bt uclyrah @ ucl . ac . uk
