Subject: summary of ' bubbler '

a few month ago i post an inquiry on the linguist list on the distribution of the word " bubbler " as a synonym for drink fountain . thank to all who respond , which be too many to list . the dictionary of american regional english have also extensively investigate this word and it be my goal to gain more specific information than that supply by dare ( for example , the regional distribution within wisconsin . ) here be a summary of my finding : in wisconsin , bubbler be use throughout the eastern half of the state , particularly along the coast of lake michigan and become less prominent the further west one travels . the " stronghold " of bubbler appear to be in milwaukee and its suburb . milwaukee be also think to be the geographic origin of bubbler , coin by the kohler company in the early 1900 's . my university ( uw - whitewater ) appear to be in conflict over what to call drink fountain . in one of our residence hall there be a sign ask resident to not use the drink fountain as a garbage disposal . the word 'd rink ' be cross out , and ' water ' be put in its place . then ' water ' and ' fountain ' be cross out , and ' bubbler ' be put in their place . it go to show you that people can be very loyal to their colloquialism ! my research provide no evidence for the term 's use in minnesota or illinoi , but i do find the word in use along the western part of michigan 's upper peninsulum ( which border wisconsin 's bubbler-use region . ) if bubbler be use anywhere else in the midwest , its existence escape my research . in fact , i find no evidence of the word 's use within the u . s . west of the mississippus or south of the ohio river . the other region that use the term include the state of rhode island ( where it be use exclusively by many speaker ) , far eastern connecticut , and southeastern massachusett - include the boston area . i have people from this region respond with amusement because they do n't know the word be use anywhere outside of their area . lastly , and much to my surprise , bubbler be use in southeastern australium - predominately in new south wale ( include sydney and canberra ) and in portion of the provinces border new south wale . the information on australium be only base on a few response , but there be some , especially in sydney , who use bubbler exclusively while grow up . there be some from part of australium who have never hear the term before , so it do appear that it be also regionally distribute in australium . there be some who distinguish bubbler from drink fountain . some only call outside fountain , bubbler , while other vice versa . one only call non-refridgerate fountain , bubbler . drink fountain seem to be the generic term that everyone be familiar with , whether they use it or not . other synonymn be : water fountain , water cooler , fountain , and water bubbler . for what its worth , the only account i have of the term ' water bubbler ' be among african american from milwaukee ( but this only include three people . ) just plain ' fountain ' seem to be the word of choice in northwestern wisconsin , while drink fountain and water fountain be use pretty interchangeably everywhere else . as for its use in literature , the only print documentation of bubbler i could find ( under the give definition ) be a 1985 milwaukee journal article which be about the word 's usage in milwaukee . i realize that some of my finding be inconsistent with dare - i believe this be because my research be not nearly as thorough as dare , and do n't take into account historical usage , only current usage . thank again to those who respond . your avid bubbler user , sean christensen internet : seanc @ iclnet93 . iclnet . org university of wisconsin - whitewater
