Subject: re : 5 . 1333 native speaker intuition

may i add my quantum of intuitive ( non-syntactician 's , nay non-linguist 's ) datum to this discussion : ) deat : sun , 20 nov 1994 12 : 41 : 23 gmt + 1200 ) from : wayne lawrence ( wp . lawrence @ auckland . ac . nz ) ) subject : re : sum : native speaker intuition ) ) marilyn silva recently summarise response deal with " native ) speaker intuition " , especially with respect to the sentence ' john ) ask mary to leave ' . she note that several respondent point out ) that the interpretation of this sentence be determine , at least in ) part , pragmatically , and the view that the interpretation be ) syntactically fix be wrong . this point be demonstrate by the ) ) pair of example : ) ) ) ) [ 1 ] the teacher ask the child to leave the room . ) ) [ 2 ] the child ask the teacher to leave the room . ) ) i be a native speaker of english ( new zealand english ) , and i be not ) a syntactician , so i do n't think my syntax be be mould by my , or ) anyone else 's , rule or theory , but , in both [ 1 ] and [ 2 ] , i can ) only interpret the person be ask ( the child in [ 1 ] , the teacher ) in [ 2 ] ) as be the person require to leave the room . there be ( in my intuition ) an undoubt pragmatic element . in both case , the teacher be suppose to be in authority and the child not . therefore [ 1 ] cause no hesitation and immediately evoke a normal situation : the teacher make a request to the child that the child leave the room . case [ 2 ] immediately evoke a picture that the child make a request to the teacher that the teacher leave the room . given the presuppose authority relationship , intuition say " hold on ! kid do n't do that ! " - except in special circumstance . so look for a special context ( ? classrom game ? ) or try a possible re-interpretation . for the latter , remember the form " the child ask to leave the room " ( teacher implicit ) and admit that [ 2 ] be a possible way of say it ( teacher explicit ) . however , i have to agree with wayne lawrence that the immediate intrepretation be as his : the person be ask be expect to leave . this interpretation be a function of syntax . only when you have " have a look " at the syntactically generate interpretation do pragmatic constraint force you to re-consider . it be , i report for myself , a distinctly two-stage process , and the second be only trigger if there be problem with the result of the first . in the case , however , of " john ask mary to leave " there be nothing give correspond to the authority relationship which would make it unlikely that john expect mary to leave , and in that case , i be afraid , syntax have it . ted . ( ted . hard @ nessie . mcc . ac . uk )
