Subject: " sum : have / hold / compulsion / existence

about a month ago , i post an enquiry ask for help in find non - ie language , in which there be a connection between any of the follow expression : ' hold ' and ' possess ' , synchronically or diachronically ' exist ' and ' possess ' ' must / should ' and ' possess ' and i be quite happy about the enthusiastic reponse ( around 20 of you contact me ) . so , for all who be interest , here be a short summary . i hope i have n't leave anyone out and that i have n't confuse anything , as i know next to nothing about the language you all tell me about . there be also the small 'd isaster ' with my email - i accidentally delete some of your answer , so i apologize if you answer but do n't find your name in the list . i would like to take the chance now to thank all those who do answer with information on the follow language : japanese : here , the verb mot - ' hold ' can also be use to a large extent for ' possess ' , but not for ' existence ' or ' compulsion ' also , an anonymous reply point out another construction for ' possess ' with aru - ' exist ' , but be not sure about the difference in mean between ' possess ' with mot - and ' possess ' with aru . basque : * edun ( nowaday - du - ) be use for possession and as an auxiliary . in addition , in the south , the verb edukus ' hold ' have also to some extent be grammaticalize to denote ' possess ' and also ' perfect ' with transitive verb , while intransitive form the perfect with izan ' be ' . this development seem to be follow the line of the development latin ) romance . hebrew : there be no verb ' possess ' in hebrew : possession be express periphrastically ( with the " dative " ) . interestingly , here also there be a connection between ' possess ' and ' compulsion ' and ' existence ' , which all apparently use this construction . aramaic : in many aramaic dialect , the earlier construction ' past participle + dative ( ' l ' ) + pronoun ' become the past tense . l be now predominantly use for a goal with verb of motion , but be also use for possession . arabic : in cairene colloquial arabic , @ anda ' at / near / by ' be use for possession and be then negate like a verb , not like a preposition . tamil iru ' be ( locate ) ' + dative be use for possession and for durative / continuous aspect , but not for perfect / perfective . kol ' hold ' , although not use for ' possess ' can be combine with iru and denote that the action be one of the follow : self-benefactive , reflexive , deliberate and / or accidental ( depend on what be expect ) . crow : ' exist ' / ' not-exist ' be not only use for existence but also ' possess ' and perfective aspect . finish : pitaa ' hold ' can also be use to express ' compulsion ' but interestingly , not ' possess ' . dakota : yuha ' hold ' may also be use to some extent for ' have ' , otherwise ' be with ' be use . chinese : yong3yiu3 , where yong3 denote ' embrace ' , can also be use to express ' possess , own ' . to stress that one have total control , one may use zhung3yiu3 , where zhung3 denote ' hold in one 's palm ' ( yiu3 be ' possess ' , ' existence ' and can also be use for ' perfect ' with question and negative statement ) idg * ghebh ' give ' - ) latin habeo ' hold ' and finally , a few tip for further read : bernd heine : grammaticaliztion : a conceptual framework . w . welmer : african language structure kathleen carey 's doctoral thesis on ' have ' as ' possess ' and ' perfect ' in the romance langauge , dept . of linguistic , ucsd robert hoberman , the syntax and semantic of verb morphology in modern aramaic ( american oriental society ) , 1989 simon hopkin , " neo - aramaic dialect and the formation of the preterite " , journal of semantic study 34 : 413-432 , 1989 j . vendrye , " sur l ' emplous de l ' auxiliaire ( < avoir ) > pour marquer le passe " , melange de linguistique et de philologie offert a jacq . van ginneken , pari : 1937 . e . benveniste : " la construction passive du parfait transitif " , bulletin de la societe de linguistique de pari , 1952 , 48 . , 136 : 52-62 . many thanks to all who respond . due to my accidental deletion , some of you unfortunately only appear as an address . those who respond be : ben @ edr5r . edr . co . jp gkinkley @ uhunus . uhcc . hawaius . edu larry trask : larryt @ cog . susx . ac . uk edit @ vm . hujus . ac . il robert hoberman : rhoberman @ sbccmail . bitnet kirk belnap : belnapk @ yvax . byu . edu haroldf @ u . washington . edu karen wallace : wallace @ biology . ucla . edu john e . koontz : koontz @ alpha . bldr . nist . gov siiroinen @ finuh . bitnet wenchao li ishaw @ ndsuvm1 . bitnet bert peeter : bert . peeter @ modlang . uta . edu . au elc9j @ faraday . cla . virginium . edu kemmer @ ruf . rice . edu c . jan - wouter zwart : zwart @ letrug . nl malcolm . ross @ anu . edu . au rcosper @ husky1 . stmarys . ca john peterson , kiel , germany , e-mail : gor05 @ rz . uni-kiel . d400 . de
