Subject: sum : eng ns in - ee

more than a dozen linguist reader respond to my request for naturally occur instance of english noun in - ee ( as in _ employee _ , _ escapee _ , etc . ) - - thanks ! special thanks go to gregory grefenstette of rank xerox research center in grenoble , who search half a gigabyte of recent newspaper article . several people report use of _ mentee _ ` person who be mentore ' , and i have report of _ standee _ ` person require to stand ( as on a bus ) ' from london , new york , louisiana , and british columbium . a paper draft contain a catalog of attest use of over 400 - ee noun word type be available through anonymous ftp at : ftp : / / ling . rochester . edu / pub / barker / paper / ee file available include the draft itself , a two-page summary abstract , and most of the relevant entry from the second edition of the oed ( include quotation ) . the paper contain quite a lot of datum , and require 48 page to print . the datum suggest that formation in - ee be highly productive , that analysis base on the syntactic argument structure of the stem verb be either incomplete or severely disjunctive , and that formation of - ee noun obey three essentially semantic constraint : an - ee noun referent must be sentient , the denotation of an - ee noun must be episodically link to the denotation of its stem ( i give a formal semantic event-base definition of ` ` episodically link ' ' ) , and the referent of an - ee noun must lack volitional control over some relevant aspect of the event which qualify it as be in the extension of the noun in question . taken together , i argue that these semantic constraint amount to a thematic role type . if so , then semantically define thematic role can actively guide formation of new word . an unsystematic selection of datum contribute by reader of linguist : best wishee ` . . . who have one lovable father , one lovable mother , one sick somebody , one successful somebody , one good-deed - doer , one poor pen pal , one best wishee , and two birthday celebrant for every nine letter you send . ' the washington post , 15 july 1987 , style section , page c5 . extractee ` recal the earlier claim that rnr yield vp - level extractee . . . ' paul postal , ` parasitic and pseudoparasitic gap ' , linguistic inquiry 25 , 1994 , page 113 . festschriftee ` this bibliography attempt to cover all book and article write , co-author or edit by the festschriftee . . . ' joergen dine johansen and harly sonne , edd . ( 1986 ) pragmatic and linguistic , festschrift for jacob l . ~ mey , odense university press , odense p . 248 . firee ` some executive would rather begin by recite the employee 's virtue and recall his contribution to the company . but one executive who try that say the " firee " interrupt him to ask for a raise . ' wall street journal , 20 march 1987 . fuckee ` there be an old joke in which two african - american want to sit in the front of the bus ( in the old day when this be illegal ) . to accomplish this , they pretend to be lawyer . lest they be discover , they believe , after they board the bus that they should talk some lawyer talk . they begin to discuss a rape case , and one lawyer claim not to understand the other 's case and ask : " who duh fucker , an who duh fuckee ? " ' [ report separately by denni preston and geoffrey s . ~ nathan . ] laughee ` another device dekoven use be the meeting meter , a piece of software that function like a taxi meter , display a continue tally on how much the meet be cost . the inspiration for the device come at a meet with his attorney when dekoven realize he waste $ 11 tell a long joke to the $ 300 - an-hour laughee . ' san francisco chronicle 6 october 1993 page d7 .
