Subject: university of durham : chair in japanese

you may know that there be now a generative linguistics department at the university of durham ( m davenport , j emond , sj hannah , bd schwartz m tallerman , m young - scholten + elt specialist ) . the japanese programme be now also expand . however , the only present lecturer of japanese be w mcclure , formal semantics ( cornell phd - - and longtime organiser of tas in japanese there ) . mcclure be presently the basis of enlarge japanese in an east asian department , which before now have focus on chinese . now , a new japanese professorship be open . a curious characteristic of the university of durham be that search for staff member be set up to last literally for day rather than week . as a loyal member of the linguistics department , no further comment on this strange fact of life . nonetheless , the administration be honestly determine to hire from the best candidate - - but of course , this means everything be do in no ( or dam little ) time . thus , an absolutely top candidate be be search for - - within two week . the close date be 2 dec . the prefer area be history , literature , politics or social study within japanese study . however , a good solid sociolinguist , even one with a generative component , may compare very well with whatever other candidate this brief search unearth . that be , the very brevity of the search can favour a candidate not quite in the core area be seek . in fact , not ' can ' but ' will ' - - and have , and be the key to this message . lot of publication be the main thing . moreover , durham be also a bite short on top woman staff . a sociolinguistic woman professor of japanese may sit quite well as a candidate . might be a nice sideway move to get around the glass ceil in one 's own country - - a quick move up ( what the heck if the food be n't so great , it 's damp , there 's no good shower , etc . ) . look at that list of linguist above , and consider all the linguistic event , conference , research grant , etc . that have recently involve durham . the people above be friendly too . post begin 1 oct . 1995 or as soon as possible thereafter . send a cv , as detail as possible , with full career history and publication and any grant award , and a cover letter to : mr . jack boyd , director of personnel university of durham old shire hall durham dh1 3hp uk include the name , address , tel . and fax number of 3 referee , and indicate date in jan . and feb . when you could not be present in durham for interview . only uk resident need to send 5 copy ; all other just one . there be also a special form ( 1 page ) which mr . boyd will send you ( or a linguist at this e-mail address will fax it to you if you send us a small note as to who you be ) .
