Subject: 

syntax c . s . rhy , d . adger and a . von klopp ( ed ) , functional category , argument structure and parametric variation . price 7 . 75 ( pound sterl ) ; 179pp . centre for cognitive science , university of edinburgh . work paper in cognitive science , vol 9 . available from inhouse publication secretary , centre for cognitive science , 2 buccleuch place , edinburgh , eh8 9lw ( email : diane @ cogscus . ed . ac . uk ) how be argument structure project into the syntax , and how do it interact specifically with information contribute by functional head ? the papers in this volume address these question within a broadly gb - base framework cross-linguistically cover empirical issue such as auxiliary , nominalisation , case-patterning , coordination , temporal interpretation and bind . the papers tend to converge toward a recognition of the non-ambiguity of lexeme and of the rich structure of their internal specification . ihp postal charge be : uk 1 . 50 , world surface 2 . 50 world airmail 5 . 50 ( all figure pound sterl ) . semantics harvey , mandy , and lynn santelmann ( ed . ) , proceedings from semantics and linguistic theory iv 1994 299pp . paperbound cost : $ 18 . 0 student , $ 20 . 0 non-student ( prepay ) for further information on the contents of this and other dmll publication and how to order , please contact dmll publication at book @ plab . dmll . cornell . edu . phonology harri , john ( university college london ) ; english sound structure ; 1994 ; 336 pp ; blackwell ; hb 0-631 - 18261 - 6 ; pb 0-631 - 18741 - 3 . inspection copy request : ( usa ) blkwell @ world . std . com ; ( uk ) inspcopy @ cix . compulink . co . uk . the book be as much about phonological theory as about the phonology of english . it be design as a text for use on intermediate and advance course but will be of value to anyone interest in recent theoretical development in the field . draw on material from a wide range of dialect , the book explore the view that phonological difference between grammar be constrain by universal principle and occur within fix bound define by a small number of parameter . phenomena discuss include vowel length , syllabic structure , consonantal weaken , and vowel reduction and syncope . slavic ling kto est ' kto v sovremennoj rusistike ( who 's who in russian linguistic ; in russian ) , ed . by yurus karaulov ( moscow ) and arto mustajokus ( helsinkus ) . 1994 . 330 pp . hard - cover . distributor librus academicus , fax ( + 358 ) - 0-13114332 . fim 250 ( approx . $ 50 ) + s / h . isbn 952-90 - 5536 - 6 . more information about the book and the possibility of use a credit card : mustajok @ waltarus . helsinkus . fus . first attempt to collect information on specialist in russian linguistics from all over the world . contain entry on more than 650 linguist specialise in russian , among them such famous scholar as adamec , apresyan , arutyunova , chvany , corbett , zolotova . if you be not include in the first edition of the book and you would like to be mention in the second edition , please send your e-mail address or fax to arto mustajokus ( mustajok @ waltarus . helsinkus . fus ) , who will contact you later . obs ! you can avoid ship cost by use visa , mastercard or eurocard . give your name and address and card number ( + expiry date of your card ) by e-mail : mustajok @ waltarus . helsinkus . fus
