Subject: 

call for paper to the workshop connectionist - symbolic integration : from unify to hybrid approach to be hold at ijcai ' 95 montreal , canada august 19-20 , 1994 there have be a considerable amount of research in integrate connectionist and symbolic process . while such an approach have clear advantage , it also encounter serious difficulty and challenge . therefore , various model and idea have be propose to address various problem and aspect in this integration . there be a grow interest from many segment of the ai community , rang from expert system , to cognitive model , to logical reason . two major trend can be identify in the state of the art : these be the unify or purely and the hybrid approach to integration . wherea the purely connectionist ( " connectionist-to - the-top " ) approach claim that complex symbol process functionality can be achieve vium neural network alone , the hybrid approach be premise on the complementarity of the two paradigm and aim at their synergistic combination in system comprise both neural and symbolic component . in fact , these trend can be view as two end of an entire spectrum . up till now , overall , there be still relatively little work in compare and combine these fairly isolate effort . this workshop will provide a forum for discussion and exchange of idea in this area , to foster cooperative work . the workshop will tackle important issue in integrate connectionist and symbolic process . a tentative schedule day 1 : a . introduction : * invite talk these talk will provide an overview of the field and set the tone for ensue discussion . * theoretical foundation for integrate connectionist and symbolic process b . definition of the two approach : * do they exhaust the space of current research in connectionist-symbolic integration , or be there room for additional category ? * how do we compare the unify and hybrid approach ? * do the unify and hybrid approach constitute a clearcut dichotomy or be they just endpoint of a continuum ? * what class of process and problem be well-suit to unify or hybrid integration ? the relevant motivation and objective . * what type of model be suitable for what type of application ? enumerate viable target domain . c . state of the art : * recent or ongo theoretical or experimental research work * implement model belong to either the unify or hybrid approach * practical application of both type of system research address key issue concern : * the unify approach : theoretical or practical issue involve systematicity , compositionality and variable bind , biologically inspire model , connectionist knowledge representation , other high-level connectionist model . * the hybrid approach : mode and method of couple , task share between various component of a hybrid system , knowledge representation and share . * both : commonsense reason , natural language process , analogical reason , and more generally application of unify and hybrid model . day 2 : d . cognitive aspect : * cognitive plausibility and relation to other ai paradigm * in cognitive model , why should we integrate connectionist and symbolic process ? * is there a clear cognitive rationale for such integration ? ( we may need to examine in detail some typical area , such as commonsense reason , and natural language process ) * is there psychological and / or biological evidence for exist model ? if so , what be it ? e . open research issue : * can we now propose a common terminology with precise definition for both approach to connectionist-symbolic integration and for the location on the continuum ? * how far can unify system go ? can unify model be supplement by hybrid model ? can hybrid model be supplant by unify model ? * limitation and barrier face by both approach * what breakthrough be need for both approach ? * is it possible to synthesize various exist model ? workshop format - panel discussion - mini-group discussion : participant will break into group of 7 / 8 to discuss a give theme ; group leader will then form a panel to report on group discussion and attempt a synthesis with audience participation - interactive talk : this be a novel type of oral presentation we will experiment with . instead of a classical presentation , the speaker will present a problem or issue and give a brief statement of his personal stand ( 5 min ) to launch discussion which he will then moderate and conclude . - classical slide talk follow by q / a and discussion . workshop co - chair : frederic alexandre , crin - cnr / inrium - lorraine ron sun , the university of alabama organize committee : john barnden , new mexico state university steve gallant , belmont research inc . larry medsker , american university christian pellegrinus , university of geneva noel sharkey , sheffield university program committee : lawrence bookman ( sun laboratory , usa ) michael dyer ( ucla , usa ) wolfgang ertel ( frw , germany ) limin fu ( university of florida , usa ) jose gonzalez - cristobal ( upm , spain ) ruben gonzalez - rubio ( university of sherbrooke , canada ) jean - paul haton ( crin - inrium , france ) melanie hilario ( university of geneva , switzerland ) abderrahim labbus ( imag , france ) ronald yager ( iona college , usa ) schedule : - the submission deadline for participant be february 1 , 1995 . - the author and potential participant will be notify the acceptance decision by march 15 , 1995 . - the camera-ready copy of work note papers will be due on april 15 , 1995 submission : - if you wish to present a talk , specify the prefer type of presentation ( classical or interactive talk ) and submit 5 copy of an extend abstract ( within the limit of 5 - 7 page ) to : ron sun department of computer science the university of alabama tuscaloosa , al 35487 rsun @ c . ua . edu ( 205 ) 348-6363 - if you only wish to attend the workshop , send 5 copy of a short ( no more than one page ) description of your interest to the same address above . - please be sure to include your e-mail address in all submission .
