Subject: open letter to * language *

on my own behalf and that of william c . baxter , victorium a . fromkin , jane h . hill , larry hutchinson , richard hudson , michael b . kac , d . terence langendoen , winfr p . lehmann , edgar c . polome , karl v . teeter , and thoma wasow i wish to post the follow open letter to * language * , the official journal of the lsa . if anybody else would like to sign , please contact me . alexis manaster ramer - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - on open letter to * language * we , the undersign member of the linguistic society of america , work in a wide variety of subfield and theoretical orientation in linguistics . nevertheless , we have come together to urge that * language * take notice of a work of scholarship which have to date receive very little discussion or review . the work in question be the late v . m . illich - svitych 's * opyt sravnenija nostraticheskikh jazykov * . it seem to us that considerable interest attach to theory of " distant " linguistic relationship ( as evidence , for example , by the ongo controversy , so well reflect in * language * , about the amerind hypothesis ) and about the methodological and theoretical issue that arise in connection with the question of whether such relationship can ever be demonstrate . whether illich - svitych 's work ultimately turn out to be right , partly right , utterly wrong , or simply incapable of verification or refutation , we believe it should be review since many of us do not read russian and have not be able to read the work in question . we be aware that a number of linguist in the field have negative view of this work which make it even more important that * language * publish a review , a review article , a debate between a supporter and an opponent of the hypothesis , or some other suitable opportunity for the membership of the lsa to have the existence of this work acknowledge - - and the issue which it raise vent - - in an open , public , and scholarly fashion .
