Subject: sum : vowel length in orthography

a few week ago i post a query about the orthographic mark of vowel length , with special reference to korean . i receive many very interest reply , both on korean and on the general question , which i will summarise below - the whole topic raise some issue that people may like to comment further on . first though - thanks to everyone who take the trouble to send me information . it be my first linglist query and i ' m delight with the way it work ! it would have take me age to assemble all these example from library research . at first i be surprise to get a lot of reply suggest as example of language that dont mark vowel length , english , german and so on . then i realise i should have be clearer in my original request . a . fox put the problem well with his question : ' your query about write and vowel length be slightly odd , since it imply that in most language with contrastive vowel-length the write system represent it . but this depend on what you mean by ' represent ' vowel-length ; in the sense of have an explicit and consistent marker of length , such as a double letter , a diacritic or other length mark , this be not very common , at least in language with which i be familiar . but length can be implicitly mark in a variety of way , and therefore discoverable from the spell for anyone ( such as the literate native speaker ) who know the system . ' i 'd intend to include all of these thing as way of ' represent ' vowel length ; definitely not only case where vowel length be represent as a feature in its own right by a macron , double symbol etc . so what i want be example of language with an extensive system of minimal pair differentiate wholly or mainly by vowel length which have identical orthographic representation of the member of the pair . this be the situation in korean , for quite a largish set of word of both one and two syllable . it 's definitely not the situation in english , german , canadian french , danish etc . i dont think its the situation in latin either , though i may be wrong , and would be glad of correction . here and in quite a few of the other language that be suggest to me , vowel length be predictable from some other aspect of the word ( include its lexical identity ) so you dont actually get many or any minimal pair differentiate only by length . right ? the same would appear to be the case for hausa ; and possibly for the other estonian vowel length contrast ? my estonian be a bite rusty , but would i be right in guess that the full three way contrast be fairly limit ? however , several of the pacific language that be mention to me do seem to fit the bill : tokelauan , samoan , maorus , fijian and the ponapeic language be all candidate for have what i would call a genuine length contrast ( although it seem that in maorus at any rate the system of contrast be quite limit ) , which be at least sometime not show in the orthography . so , it seem , do the australian language bardus , and its orthography doesnt show it . . the thing i find very interest be the number of people who send anecdotal evidence about how native speaker of these language feel about mark vowel length . their write system be all of course relatively recent introduction base on the roman alphabet , and there be plenty of way they could show vowel length . but they dont alway use this potential it seem . apparently the speaker of ponapeic language use length mark inconsistently , so do fijian speaker , maorus speaker find it ' unnatural ' and dont like use it , tokelauan teacher have decide not to teach it , and in samoa use of a length marker be ban ! there seem to be something worth explore here . the obvious hypothesis be that though the word be differentiate phonetically by length , this be not the distinction that be most salient to the native speaker . the next obvious hypothesis be that it be some kind of lexical distinction , similar to that of english ' good ' v ' food ' , ' boot ' v 's oot ' , ' look ' v ' loop ' etc that be perfectly simple for native speaker and horrible for learner . ( which could also explain why gaelic have take the opposite trend and start mark vowel length where it never use to , since it be use so much nowaday by less than fully native speaker . . . ) . thought on these hypothesis would be gratefully receive . but back to korean . . . this still seem like a very unusual situation to me . it seem likely and indeed it be suggest by some of the korean respondent that the original hangul do have a length marker , but i have find no evidence for this in my research on hangul . ( that 's why i post the orginal query , and i ve just have another look at ledyard 's thesis on the topic . ) maybe i just need to do more careful research : pointer on this also gratefully receive . a couple of point of clarification : the distinction between the monosyllabic vowel length ' minimal pair ' do seem to be die out ( though it be the fact that it previously exist but be not mark in the write system at that time that i find odd ; could it be that the lack of orthographic representation contribute to its demise ? ? ) . but there be a clear distinction in the sound of the two syllable pair . to my ear these distinction seem to be much more one of pitch accent than of length . and : when i say that native speaker dont easily identify vowel length , i didnt mean that they say ' my language doesnt have a vowel length distinction ' - which would indeed be a statement to be cautious of ! i mean they dont know which word be suppose to have the long vowel and which the short . this be consistent with information send by native speaker that it be something teach in school as a prescriptive rule well for anyone who have read this far , let me reward you by share with you this response from frun karttunen ( i hope she doesnt mind ) . i dont know exactly how to interpret it with respect to my question above , but i ' m sure there 's something in it for all of us ! ' both the maya and the nahua ( speaker of unrelate mesoamerican language ) have achieve a partially-syllabic approach to write before the arrival of european in the first quarter of the 16th century . from what we can tell of their write , both make some use of rhebus principle in which a draw of thing , the name of which be similar rather than identical , be use to suggest the intend word / syllable . for instance , a draw of a a bare bottom ( tzin-tlus " buttocks " ) be use for the honorific suffix - tzin . likewise a draw of a banner , pan-tlus be use for locative - pan . these two example be suffix , but there be similar case for initial syllable of nahuatl noun stem , for instance . vowel length , at least for nahuatl , be not take into account in these case . the honorific suffix today have the reflex of a long vowel in most modern dialect of nahuatl , make it homophonous with the stem of " buttocks " , but attestation from the sixteenth century consistently show them to contrast in vowel length ( short for the honorific , long for " buttocks " ) . same for " banner " ( long vowel ) versus the locative ( short ) . ' thank again to all respondent , who be list below as acknowledgment . ( hope that 's ok ; prepare this summary have already take so long that i ' m not keen now to go through and give proper ' who say what ' acknowledgment ! ) helen wechsler @ world . std . com ( allan c wechsler ) rcosper @ husky1 . stmarys . ca ( ronald cosper ) frun karttunen ( liar457 @ utxvm . cc . utexa . edu shelly @ uniwa . uwa . edu . au ( shelly harrison ) pulju @ ricevm1 . rice . edu gshin @ rs6 . chonnam . ac . kr ( gyonggu shin ) ian . green @ anu . edu . au ( ian green ) geoffn @ siu . edu ( geoffrey s . nathan ) mdr412 @ coomb . anu . edu . au ( malcolm ross ) jussus . karlgren @ sic . se kenneth de jong ( kdejong @ indiana . edu laurie . bauer @ vuw . ac . nz lance eccle ( lance . eccle @ mq . edu . au ) j . a . rea jarea @ ukcc . uky . edu jihualde @ ux1 . cso . uiuc . edu henry roger ( roger @ epa . utoronto . ca ) brian d joseph ( bjoseph @ magnus . ac . ohio-state . edu ) david fertig ( fertig @ acsu . buffalo . edu ) david gil ( ellgild % nusvm . bitnet @ cunyvm . cuny . edu stavro macraki ( macraki @ osf . org ) marc picard ( picard @ vax2 . concordia . ca ) charle scott ( cscott @ macc . wisc . edu ) lar mathiesen ( u of copenhagen cs dep ) ( thorinn @ diku . dk ) mark aronoff ( maronoff @ datalab2 . sb . sunysb . edu ) caoimhin @ sabhal-mor - ostaig . ac . uk ( caoimhin p . odonnaile ) jaejung . song @ stonebow . otago . ac . nz ( jaejung song ) " a . t . c . fox " ( lnp6atcf @ lucs-mac . novell . leeds . ac . uk ) mjulien @ isl . uit . no ( marit julien ) blaine erickson ( erickson @ uhunix . uhcc . hawaius . edu ) _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ hfraser @ metz . une . edu . au ( 129 . 180 . 4 . 1 ) helen fraser ( dr ) dept of linguistic university of new england armidale nsw 2351 australia phone 55 73 2128 / 3189 fax 55 73 3735
