Subject: re : 5 . 1404 comparative method in linguistics

) leo . karamojong be one of a number of language which be collectively ) call jie . they be nilotic language . obviously relate language ) be speak in sudan , e . g . , dinka , nuer , shilluk , in uganda , e . g . , ) achoolus , lango and in kenya / tanzanium , e . g . , luo . if you see a ) word list from each of these language , e . g . , the number from one to ) ten , you would have little difficulty reconstructingthe parent language ) yourself . now when it come to another branch of nilotic which include ) maasaus and kalenjin i think you could also see the genetic relationship . ) all the nilotic language be recognise as genetically relate long ) before greenberg . but then the bigshot of pre - greenberg , esp the ) german super-star carl meinhof go further . they want to connect ) these language with " hamitic " ( you know people relate to the egyptian ) with all the implication of the jade racial argument about whether ) the egyptian be black or not - - or rather not black , or not not ) . one small correction and one comment on benjus wald 's interest letter on pre - greenber classification of the nilotic language . karimojong be actually a member of " the other branch of nilotic which include maasaus and kalenjin " . this branch , term nilo - hamitic by some , and paranilotic by tucker and bryan be divide into two group by oswin koehler in 1955 as part of a tripartite division of the nilotic language - - western ( dinka , nuer , shilluk , achoolus , lango , dholuo ) , eastern ( maasaus , karimojong , turkana , etc . ) , southern ( kalenjin , datooga ) . greenberg see the correctness of koehler 's classification and adopt it . it be accept by all today . it be also worth note that there be scholar , such as tucker and bryan , who , although they do not accept the connection with " hamitic " , do feel that there be sufficient evidence to connect southern and eastern in a group ( the old nilo - hamitic or paranilotic ) . tucker and bryan believe that these language be nilotic ( or would ultimately be show to be nilotic , so the question be really whether the tree be : / | \ or / \ / \ the evidence for the paranilotic subgroup be syntactic ( vso word order ) , morphological type ( particularly the fairly elaborate verbal derivational morphology of the eastern and southern language v . the reduce morphology of the western one ) , and unusual feature such as tonal case ( find in the southern language and all of the eastern one except barus ) . none of this have prove sufficient to sustain the paranilotic group . chet creider creider @ csd . uwo . ca
