Subject: aaai fall symoposium on formalizing context

formalizing context aaai-95 fall symposium mit , cambridge , massachusett november 10-12 , 1995 call for paper description the notion of context have play an important role in ai system for many year . however , formal logical explication of context remains an area of research in which there be significant open issue . this symposium will provide a forum for discuss formalization of context , approach to resolve open issue , and application area for context formalism . the most ambitious goal of formalize context be to make automate reason system which be never permanently stick with the concept they use at a give time because they can alway transcend the context they be in . such a capability would allow the designer of a reason system to include only such phenomenon as be require for the system 's immediate purpose , retain the assurance that if a broader system be require later , " lift rule " can be devise to restate the fact from the narrow context in the broader context with qualification add as necessary . a formal theory of context in which sentence be alway consider as assert within a context could provide a basis for such transcendence . formal theory of context be also need to provide a representation of the context associate with a particular circumstance , e . g . the context of a conversation in which term have particular meaning that they would n't have in the language in general . linguist and philosopher have already study similar notion of context . an example be the situation theory that have be propose in philosophy and apply to linguistics . however , these theory usually lie embed in the analysis of specific linguistic construction , so locate the exact match with ai concern be itself a research challenge . this symposium aim to bring together researcher who have study or apply context in ai or relate field . technical papers deal with formalization of context , the problem of generality , and use of context in common sense reason be especially welcome . however , survey papers which focus on context from other point of view , such as philosophy , linguistics , or natural language process , or which apply context in other area of ai , be also encourage . submission information person wish to make presentation at the workshop should submit papers ( up to 12 page , 12pt font ) . person wish only to attend the workshop should submit a 1 - 2 page research summary include a list of relevant publication . a postscript file or 8 paper copy should be send to the program chair . limit fund will be available to support student travel . timetable april 14 , 1995 submission deadline . may 19 , 1995 submitter will be inform of decision august 15 , 1995 final papers due september 20 , 1995 aaai will mail work note to the participant november 10-12 , 1995 fall symposium program committee sasa buvac ( chair ) . department of computer science , stanford university , stanford ca 94305-2140 . buvac @ sail . stanford . edu richard fike . knowledge system laboratory , stanford university , 701 welch road , bldg . c , palo alto , ca 94304 . fike @ ksl . stanford . edu ramanathan guha . mcc , 3500 , w . balcone center drive , austin , tx 78759 . guha @ mcc . com pat haye . beckman institute , 405 north mathew av . , urbana , il 61801 . phay @ c . uiuc . edu john mccarthy . department of computer science , stanford university , stanford ca 94305-2140 . jmc @ sail . stanford . edu murray shanahan . imperial college , dept of compute , 180 queen 's geat , london sw7 2bz , england . mp @ doc . ic . ac . uk robert stalnaker . 20d-220 , department of linguistic and philosophy , m . i . t . cambridge , ma 02139 . stal @ mit . edu johan van benthem . institute for logic , language and computation , university of amsterdam , plantage muidergracht 24 , 1018 tv amsterdam , the netherland . johan @ fwus . uva . nl ( postscript and plain text version of this announcement be available through the symposium www page at http : / / sail . stanford . edu / buvac / 95 - context-symposium and vium anonymous ftp from sail . stanford . edu in the directory / buvac / 95 - context-symposium . )
