Subject: comparative syntax

while i really like most of what scott delancey have to say about syntactic reconstruction usually be base on clue bury in the morphology ( or morphophonology ) , i do n't think this be alway the case . there be a rather famous example involve a rule of ancient greek and one variety of old iranian ( the language of the gatha 's , i seem to recall ) , whereby a neuter pl . subject trigger sg . agreement on a verb , a pattern which be often reconstruct for the proto-language because , as i understand it , of its apparent oddity . this reconstruction be not logically dependent , i do n't believe , on the identity of the actual morpheme mark gender , number , and person in these language . i would think that there be many such quirk of syntax which could be the basis of a reconstruction . e . g . , polish and several other indo - european language show trace of a pattern whereby an np refer to a group compose of male and female be grammatically neuter . i have be play around with the idea of try to reconstruct this as an old pattern which would be quite independent of the particular number morpheme involve ( b . t . w . , if anyone know of any literature on this phenomenon , i would be grateful for any reference and will post them in summary form ) . another example ( which be not so interest , because we happen to know the history ) : russian do various complicate thing with the case / number ending of the noun and adjective when combine with numeral . thus , in the nominative case , ' these adj n ' and ' two adj n ' show different adj and noun form in russian , where in the presence of a numeral from 2 to 4 the adj have to be in what look the gen . pl . form ( unless it be feminine , when either the gen . pl . or the gen . sg . be possible ) and the noun in what look like the gen . sg . form ( except for one or two noun which seem to take a special form differ in stress placement from the gen . sg . ) . closely relate polish , on the other hand , do nothing special in this case ( though both language do other weird thing with numeral above 4 , which need not concern us ) . i wonder if we would not be able to conclude from such behavior that the ancestor of these language have a distinct paucal number ( 2 - 4 be paucal ) category , which then merge with the plural in polish , but stay distinct in russian ( with the further hypothesis that some of the paucal ending must have looked like the genitive sg . one ) . and an even further hypothesis may be that the paucal be originally dual , since paucal be a very unusual category to have . of course , we know that this be what happen , but i wonder if we could not have reconstruct it even if have not know . so , provide the syntactic pattern be distinctive ( e . g . , weird ) enough , purely syntactic comparative reconstruction should be possible ( and i bet that we could even find some more example of it in the literature beside the greek - iranian one cite above ) . the problem only seem impossible when we consider pattern which be quite prosaic ( and where the number of possibility be small ) , like the so-cal basic word order that have be talk about so much in this discussion . even there , i think , that if we look at the detailed fact of word order ( not just ov , vo , and the like ) in a group of language , we may be able to reconstruct the proto - system of word order with some degree of confidence . and even the basic order may be reconstructable enough if we have enough language with enough diversity and ( geographical ) dispersion between them . the fact that classical latin be often verb-final , while all the romance language be verb-middle or verb-initial , do not seem to be a very important counterexample , because ( a ) vernacular latin may well have be much more verb - middle than the literary and it be only the former that be relevant , ( b ) the romance language do not exhibit very much diversity or dispersion . for ex . , do it not seem clear that we can reconstruct ov for proto - turkic and proto - mongolic ? and vo for proto - polynesian ?
