Subject: apply linguistic position

applied linguistics / esl . search reopened . closing date : february 24 , 1995 . east texa state university invite application for assistant professor of english ( tenure-track ) to teach course in apply linguistics / esl , full time , start august 21 , 1995 . minimum qualification : doctorate in apply linguistics or relate apply field ( by june 1 , 1995 ) ; college teach experience to include some or all of the area list below ( see " duty " ) ; demonstrate research commitment . desirable qualification : experience with in-service and pre-service teacher preparation at elementary and secondary level ; ability and experience in teach composition ( include technical write ) , literature survey , word-build , or introductory philosophy ; knowledge of language other than english . duty : teach undergrad and grad course in general linguistics , structure and history of english , esl principle and practice , language acquisition and process , sociolinguistic ; advise undergrad and grad student , direct thesis ; conduct and publish research in area of apply linguistics specialty . require application material : letter of application , c . v . , transcript , three recent letter of recommendation . send all material to gerald duchovnay , head , department of literature and language , east texa state university , commerce , tx 75429 . close date : february 24 , 1995 . file that be active at the time the search be close earlier this year will be reactivate . east texa state university , which enroll approximately 8 , 0 student in undergrad , master 's , and doctoral program in three college ( a&s , business / technology , education ) , be locate off interstate highway 30 , about 65 mile northeast of dalla . teach assignment occasionally require a weekly commute to a satellite campus in suburban dalla / forth worth . east texa state university be commit to the goal of affirmative action and equal employment opportunity . qualify member of affect group be encourage to apply .
