Subject: ijcai95 workshop on context in nlp

call for papers ijcai-95 workshop on context in natural language processing august 19 , 20 , or 21 , 1995 montreal , canada correct interpretation of natural language utterance and text require linguistic and non-linguistic context . the goal of this workshop be to investigate the nature of context in natural language , its role in natural language process , and shed some light on this largely unexplore area of great theoretical and practical importance . dialogue and text process be two application domain where the lack of good theory of context impede significant progress in apply and develop new technology . as speech technology mature , it become technically feasible to build dialogue system . however , understand dialogue , and especially multimodal dialogue , be not possible without some account of the role of context . similarly , with today 's text process technology it be feasible to automatically create knowledge base from fairly unconstrain text such as newspaper archive . ignore context in such text , however , result in knowledge base that be not only very incomplete , but also dramatically different from knowledge base create by human , base on the same text . we invite papers from researcher active in the field of natural language process , knowledge representation , and other relate area address theoretical aspect of context and their implication for design practical nlp system . we be interest in report on implement nlp system utilize contextual information . we be also interest in knowledge representation system , inference method , and algorithm that would allow one to computationally handle specific aspect of context . agenda : our workshop will provide answer and insight into how to go about answer a number of question , include the follow : i : role of context in natural language what be context ? what be " context of the previous utterance / sentence " " context of the dialog-so - far / text-so - far " and what be the relationship between them ? how many different context be there ? what make two context different ? what be the relationship between formalization of context and natural language idea of context ? what be the status of context in a formal representation aim at truthfully capture all the characteristic of natural language ? is context an inherent characteristic of natural language that ultimately decide the formal power of natural language ? is natural language minus context a less powerful formal language ? doe represent context and truthfully capture characteristic of natural language require new knowledge representation or automate reason system ? what be the relationship between context , and the semantics and pragmatic of natural language ? is context different from possible world and situation ? what be the relationship between domain ontology and context ? ii : context-dependent interpretation of natural language in which way do context affect interpretation of natural language utterance and text ? which aspect of context or which context result in refine , more general , and different interpretation of natural language ? which aspect of context be explicit and which be implicit in natural language utterance and text ? which phenomenon and inference observe in natural language be context-independent and which one alway depend on context ? iii : computability doe handle context increase or decrease computational complexity of natural language process ? how to automatically identify context-provide constraint result in convey and understand additional or different aspect of information ? how to represent those extra constraint provide by context and how to automatically compute context-dependent interpretation of natural language ? should the final interpretation of natural language be decontextualize when store in a knowledge base ? how can information obtain in one context be utilize in another , possibly unanticipate context ? workshop format : we will hold four session : i : role of context in natural language ii : context - dependent interpretation of natural language iii : computability iv : general discussion session i , ii , and iii will be mildly structure : first , the committee will present a brief overview of possible answer to the specific question include in the agenda , and discuss their own answer . this presentation will be mix with question from the participant . second , the participant whose papers be accept will briefly comment on their own answer to these question . these presentation will also be mix with question from the participant . session iv , a general discussion , will give each participant a chance to make a statement about any context-relate issue , make a comment , raise a question , argue for or against some answer etc . pre-worshop activities : a pre-workshop mail list will be establish ; please , indicate whether you want to be include ; in order to facilitate interaction and focus the discussion , two month before the workshop , we will provide all the participant with specific example and datum illustrate various aspect of context . author + title + abstract of the accept papers , but not the papers themselve , will be available on-line to everybody . the papers will only be available to the workshop participant . we hope that this will encourage people to make strong claim even if the support for them be not quite there , report on partial , ongo , promise research , be frank in evaluate exist approach and their own accomplishment , openly comment on limitation , in short , say all those ( very ) informative thing that be sometime difficult , if not impossible , to communicate in " official " publication . share datum , reference , papers and the mail list be to allow the participant to : - sort out as many as possible thing before the workshop - help focus the workshop discussion on the hardest and most controversial issue - raise objection and bring up controversial claim early on in order to prepare well think of answer and constructive critique participants : a limit number , 30 or so , active participant will be select on the basis of submit papers . a small number , 5 or so , of no-paper - attendance-only participant will also be consider ; such person should submit a one page research summary and a list of relevant publication . attendee be require to register for the main ijcai-95 conference . schedule / deadlines : very soon mosaic home page for the workshop set 3 . 15 . 95 paper receive 4 . 3 . 95 select papers accept participant choose 4 . 5 . 95 acceptance notification send to author sent to ijcai select papers to be include in the work note list of confirm participant request for equipment / room 4 . 15 . 95 mosaic home page for the workshop update e-mail discussion begin 5 . 1 . 95 distribute to the participant final list of specific issue to be discuss at the workshop reference to the exist work on context example and datum illustrate various aspect of context 7 . 15 . 95 final list of participant send to ijcai 8 . 19 . 95 workshop take place 12 . 1 . 95 written review of the workshop ready paper format : same as ijcai-95 : 12 pt article latex style 15 page maximum , include title , abstract , figure , and reference the first page must include : title author 's name ( s ) affiliation complete mail address e-mail address phone / fax number ( s ) abstract of 200 or so word keyword submissions : electronic submission be strongly prefer : direct : anonymous ftp to ftp . c . wayne . edu ~ pub / context directory place the postscript or ascii version of your paper , your author + title + abstract ascii file , your reference ( bibtex format prefer ) file , and a file with sample datum and / or specific example please , name your file with the name of the first author . for example , john block may place there the follow : block . p a . p version of his paper block . text an ascii version of his paper if . p not possible block-a . text an ascii file with author name , title , and abstract block-r . bbl a bibliography file with reference block-e . text an ascii file with sample datum and / or specific example email : lucja @ c . wayne . edu as the last resort , four hard copy of the paper can be snail mail to lucja iwanska department of computer science wayne state university detroit , mi 48202 , usa ( 313 ) 577-1667 ( phone ) ( 313 ) 577-2478 ( secretary ) ( 313 ) 577-6868 ( fax ) info about the workshop and the abstract of the accept papers be available vium a mosaic home page at http : / / www . c . wayne . edu / context primary contact : should you have any question or need additional information , please contact lucja iwanska department of computer science wayne state university detroit , mi 48202 lucja @ c . wayne . edu ( 313 ) 577-1667 ( phone ) ( 313 ) 577-2478 ( secretary ) ( 313 ) 577-6868 ( fax ) program committee : harry c . bunt , kub - university ( netherland ) keith devlin , saint mary 's college ( usa ) r . v . guha , microelectronic and computer technology corporation ( usa ) lucja iwanska , wayne state university ( usa ) karen jensen , microsoft corporation ( usa ) john mccarthy , stanford university ( usa ) john f . sowa , suny at binghampton ( usa ) wlodek zadrozny , ibm tj watson research center ( usa )
