Subject: re : 5 . 1462 comparative method

a couple of remark on recent exchange on comparative method : 1 ) as far as importance of morphology be concern i believe that alexis be right ( sorry , karl ! ) . it be important , but i think that it would be impossible to insist that only morphological prallel like latin est , sunt and german ist , sind cite by karl teeter can prove relationship . old church slavic have the parallel form iest # and so ~ t # , perfectly agree with karl teeter 's latin and german . however , in modern russian the present of copula dissapear ( we can still recognize form like iest ' and sut ' , but they sound bitterly archaic ) : on student ( he [ be ] student ) , onus studenty ( they [ be ] stu - dent ) . let us imagine the situation when the only survive slavic language be russian and we just do not have old church slavonic material . doe the lack of the paradigm make russian less " indoeuropean " than latin or german , or do it make impossible the proof of its ie nature ? i think that the answer be in the negative . second , alexis be certainly right when he say that a refusal to admit lexical evidence will make impossible to prove that mandarin be relate to cantonese or that vietnamese be relate to khasus . even worse , we win be able to state that beij mandarin be relate to xi ' an mandarin , or that hanous vietnamese be relate to saigon vietnamese , as nothing resemble est , sunt / ist , sind can be find in these closely relate dialect . moreover , we would have to dismantle the family of north and north east asium as well , since their agglutinative morphology also do not exhibit anything of the kind ie do . therefore , continue this claim logically to its end , we will have to state that there be around 50 unrelate language in japan alone , because we have no possibility to prove the genetic relationship of various japanese dialect and subdialect , since they do not have a grammar like ie . there be case when proof of genetic relationship be base mostly on grammar , but there be case when it rest solely on lexical item , as well as there be lucky case like ie when one can demonstrate the relatedness on the basis of both grammar and lexicon . absolutization of any of this case may lead us to dismissal of pretty well establish language family . the case like " proto _ english - french " can actually be easily control by use basic voca - bulary in lexical comparison : no matter how many romance word be borrow b yenglish , its basic vocabulary be still germanic , which can be easily demon - strate , contrary to those who try to label the very idea of basic vocabulary as " semantic primitive " . 2 ) geoffrey pullum write : ) i wonder if it would not be a good idea to hear something - - from the defender of wide-range and large-time - depth comparison , prefererably - - concern what would count as evidence against a genetic relationship ? the same thing as in case of lower-level comparison : either lack of regular phonetic correspondence , or lack of enough number of cognate , represent basic vocabulary item and / or basic morphological marker , establish on the basis of these regular correspondence . this be why i , not be amerindianist myself , cannot believe in amerind : greenberg do not present any correspondence at all , and his whole method of " mass comparison " be in direct violation of traditional and conservative comparative methodology . therefore , i would side with greenberg opponent on this matter . but i believe that it be absolutely unfair to put illich - svitych in one company with greenberg and ruhlen , as geoffrey pullum do in his post . illich - svitych work start with chart of phonetic correspondence , which do work regularly throughout his 3 - volume work , and be , therefore , in sharp contrast with greenberg 's " mass comparison " . the whole work , at least in the area i can judge of ( altaic and uralic ) be do with painstaik care and accuracy , reflect the state of the art , contemporary to the time when his work be do ( sixty ) . may be the opponent of long-range compa - rison should at last familiarize themselve with work of illich - svitych , dolgopol 's kius and other , which as i believe represent a successful long-range comparative work ( though it do not necessarily mean that i agree with all illich - svitych 's proposal : many thing remain to be do ) , rather then to repeat the groundless allegation in illich - svitych address , and come forward with some concrete argument against his work , rather than general statement that illich - svitych 's work be like greenberg 's or that there be a ceil to the comparative method . sincerely , sasha vovin avvovin @ miamiu . ac . muohio . edu
