Subject: iccs-95

xabier arrazolum dept . of logic univ . of the basque country iccs-95 @ sf . ehu . e fourth international colloquium on cognitive science iccs-95 ilcli . villum asuncion apdo . 220 . 20080 donostium - san sebastian . spain . tf . : 34 - ( 9 ) 43 - 32 09 40 fax : 34 - ( 9 ) 43 - 29 36 77 e - mail : iccs-95 @ sf . ehu . e fourth international colloquium on cognitive science donostium - san sebastian , may 3 - 6 , 1995 second announcement the colloquium be organize by the dept . of logic and philosophy of science and the institute for logic , cognition , language and information ( ilcli ) of the university of the basque country . it will take place in the faculty of philosophy of the university of the basque country at donostia-san sebastian ( address : campus de ibaeta , avenida de tolosa , s . n . ) . main topics : 1 . social action and cooperation . 2 . cognitive approach in discourse process : grammatical and semantical aspect . 3 . model of information in communication system . 4 . cognitive simulation : scope and limit . invited speakers : the follow person have accept so far to deliver a lecture : j . barwise ( bloomington ) : local logic and the flow of information h . clark ( stanford ) : on carry out joint activity . b . chaib draa ( quebec ) : communication between computational agent . j . e . fenstad ( oslo ) : formal semantic , geometry and mind . j . y . halpern ( ibm , san jose ) : reason about knowledge . r . m . kempson ( london ) : language understand as label natural deduction g . lakoff ( berkeley ) : the metaphor system for event and cause in english . j . m . larrazabal ( san sebastian ) : doe together : structure for social action f . j . pelletier ( edmonton ) : psychologism , intuitionism and nonmonotonic reason . m . e . pollack ( pittsburgh ) : how commitment lead to coordination : the effect of individual agent reason strategy on multus - agent interaction . z . w . pylyshyn ( rutger ) : study in the architecture of mind : a central theme in cognitive science research . f . recanatus ( pari ) : domain of discourse . j . s . rosenschein ( jerusalem ) : the role of representation in interaction : discover focal point among alternative solution . v . sanchez de zavalum ( san sebastan ) : aim and wind in pragmatic theory . c . l . sidner ( cambridge , ma ) : creat collaborative conversational agent for computer interface . s . silver ( clemson ) : informational semantic and epistemic arrogance ? r . tuomelum ( helsinkus ) : collective goal and cooperation . there will be several panel discussion and tutorial on specific subject . papers : contribute papers ( 25-30 minute ) be invite from all area of cognitive science . author wish to submit a paper should send four ( 4 ) hardcopy of an extend abstract of 5 - 6 page write in english to dr . j . ezquerro ( address below ) by january 17th , 1995 . a cover page should be add to the abstract include title , all author name and affiliation , correspond author address , fax number and email address . to facilitate blind review by two or more referee all indication of authorship should appear on this detachable cover page only . paper will be evaluate by the program committee on the basis of originality , clarity , correctness and significance of result . author of accept papers be expect to present them at the colloquium . notification of acceptance / rejection : march 11 , 1995 . best paper award : a prize will be award to the author ( s ) of the best contribute paper as judge by a committee draw from the program committee . submission of complete papers ( 25 page maximum , 4 hardcopy ) of previously accept abstract , with indication of salient keyword , should be send to the organize committee by april 6 , 1995 . further information may be obtain by write to : dr . j . ezquerro iccs - 95 , program committee ilcli villum asuncion . apdo . 220 20080 san sebastian , spain . fax : 34 43 293677 e . mail : iccs-95 @ sf . ehu . e dr . k . korta iccs-95 , organize committee ilcli villum asuncion . apdo . 220 20080 san sebastian , spain . fax : 34 43 293677 e . mail : iccs-95 @ sf . ehu . e program committee : j . barwise ( bloomington ) , j . ezquerro ( secretary ) , j . e . fenstad ( oslo ) , r . m . kempson ( london ) , e . klein ( edinburgh ) , k . korta ( san sebastian ) , a . lopez ( valencium ) , f . migura ( vitorium ) , f . j . pelletier ( edmonton ) , v . sanchez de zavalum ( san sebasian ) , c . lsidner ( cambridge , ma ) , r . tuomelum ( helsinkus ) , j . tynan ( vitorium ) . organizing committee : x . arrazolum ( assistant secretary ) , m . aurnague ( toulouse ) , b . bara ( torino ) , s . garrod ( glasgow ) , l . gonzalez ( madrid ) , k . korta ( secretary ) , j . m . larrazabal ( san sebastian ) , c . martinez ( santiago ) s . rementerium ( zamudio ) .
