Subject: comparative method

these be note after the recent discussion of karl teeter , amramer , sally thomason , after the aaa meeting session on distant language reconstruction , and also in response to part of mr . poser 's message of 14 december . first , most of the discussion of karl teeter i can agree with wholeheartedly except in the use of any of his criterion as absolute . even grammatical thing can be borrow ( as sally point out ) . people do in practice * * * correctly * * * accept a language family such as uto - aztecan as essentially prove , even when no grammar have be write for the proto-language , or when only part of a grammar be write . on the one hand , nobody would be disturb much if it turn out that one of the assume uto - aztecan language be originally from another family , with truly massive borrow from uto - aztecan . the overall hypothesis of a uto - aztecan family would not be shake . on the other hand , ask the question how much of the grammar of the proto-language have to be write reveal the non-absoluteness of the criterion . only a tiny bite ? that may be subject to one of the special case in which some morphology and other grammar be borrow ( sally 's general type of example ) . so , again , karl be right in general , but wrong if any single criterion be take as an absolute ( unless circularly many criterion be combine by feat of legalese into a single criterion ) . i would like to modify amramer 's statement in exactly the same spirit : ) we cannot demand a detail morphological reconstruction ) until the language be accept as relate . this be too strong . it be not quite the same as ramer 's ) but surely he do not mean that a comparative grammar be a ) prerequisite to a reconstruction ; it be part of a reconstruction . in practice , an extensive comparative grammar be indeed write as part of a reconstruction ( ramer 's second word above , not his first above ) , but it be not likely to be write unless * * * both * * * of the follow two condition be fulfill : 1 ) the language be in fact relate ( make the grammar easier to write ) 2 ) enough scholar believe that the language may be relate and so put effort into establish their link . it be some unwarrant discouragement of the second which need to be deal with in our field . ramer be right that some linguist do discourage attempt to prove what have not already be prove . no risk-take , in other word . good researcher , attempt to write a grammar of altaic for example , will report all of their result , both for genetic relatedness , for borrow , and for a host of other question they will not even have think of when they start their research . some researcher evaluate only the hypothesis they start with . very often the difference of viewpoint amount to nothing more than an elevation of what one do oneself into the " true " or " real " work of the field , instead of recognize that it take a number of different contribution . i will illustrate from karl teeter 's recent message , with no malice intend , because i be absolutely sure he intend none himself . in modify his word to take account of amramer 's point that of course people do properly classify language on the basis of phonological correspondence , teeter write on 10 december : " since it be clear that everybody 's first approximation to linguistic history begin with such classification . what i say be just that you cannot reconstruct language on this basis . " ( please note the word " first approximation " in this . that you cannot reconstruct language on the base of classification alone seem to me a tautology . ) later in the same message , teeter revert to the more absolute statement : " on the contrary , my contention ( not my invention ) , be that the only way to establish that language be relate be to write a grammar of the proto - langauge and show how it develop into different later grammar . " ( please note the word " the only way " and " establish " . using these word do not change the fact that uto - aztecan be * * * correctly * * * accept as a prove family without teeter 's criterion be satisfy . ) on 8 december , teeter write : ) " systematic correspondence of sound in the vocabulary " may prove ) a connection between language , which be certainly an interest ) first step , but there the real work of comparative grammar start : [ then teeter mention four possible explanation , only one genetic ] ) until one can exclude the first three factor , one have prove ) nothing at all regard genetic relationship . teeter discount the enormous work of discover likely language family in the first place , trivialize that as not the " real work " and establishment of systematic sound correspondence as prove " nothing at all " regard genetic relationship . on the contrary , that do prove a group as a legitimate candidate for genetic relationship , and often the nature of the sound correspondence find will also have make one or more of the alternative less probable . the work of comparative-historical grammarian be " real work " . so be the work of those who spend enormous hard-work hour sift potential cognate to discover potential sound correspondence . do teeter and other really have no knowledge of how much work that take ? at no stage be something ever completely prove in an absolute sense ( not even after a comparative grammar be write , because of the potential for undiscover problem of the kind note by sally thoma ) . all stage of the process contribute to the end result . all stage be equally " the real work " . proof be alway incremental , not nothing , not complete and absolute . * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * i turn next to mr . poser 's message , and to other information glean at the aaa meeting . perhap mr . poser will be surprise that i be enthusiastically in favor of anyone correct any error in any claim of language relationship or language structure , include mr . poser 's mention of kimball correct error in muskogean , even or especially if that means that a greenberg claim about pronoun in amerind be weaken . it be actually claim about morphology where i expect greenberg be least likely to have succeed in contribute something . i thank mr . poser for the bibliography i can check against my list of correction and for this note on muskogean pronoun . i also agree with mr . poser that the criticism of error in datum do not rely on the mere authority of the critic . ( that be not my point about appeal to authority , so one of mr . poser 's paragraph be not directly relevant . my earlier point about appeal to authority remains . ) i do not indicate ( as mr . poser 's message suggest ) that critic complain of error when they could not back them up . what i do say be that they claim greenberg 's error make the method worthless , without bother to test whether correction of the error would actually lead to a change in his conclusion , and without promptly provide the datum so other could carry out such a test . ) from conversation , i would judge some be still reluctant to face this test , the one require by a part of their claim . ( even if their claim on this point prove wrong in some degree , because the conclusion of greenberg 's method mostly remain the same even after error of those kind be correct , it still will not follow that greenberg 's method produce valid result on a regular basis . please notice how careful it be important to be with notion of proof for or against anything . ) in conversation with bob rankin at the recent aaa meeting i indicate i be glad greenberg have make the attempt at morphology , with his 3rd - person alternation between / y / and / t / as a putative relic irregularity , but i be equally likely to end up believe that he have discover a new typological fact , a preference for these unmark segment and recur condition under which they may alternate in more or less the same way , which may indicate that the same phenomenon could arise by chance repeatedly . we be alway deal simultaneously with possibility of genetic relationship or convergent evolution . as a general warn about the danger of throw out hypothesis too early because they be " obviously " case of chance lookalike or convergent evolution , an article " common pathway of illumination " by stephen jay gould of harvard , in natural history magazine , december 1994 pp . 10-20 , discuss the origin of eye in different phylum of the animal kingdom . he state that this have be a classic case in biology , use to show convergent evolution of originally unrelate organ to serve the same function . however , the dna specialist have get their hand on this one , and apparently it be * * * the same dna * * * which be regulate important part of the production of eye in these various phylum , bar of course a few change in a few amino acid code . this dna be therefore genetically inherit ( and we be talk as far back as the common node on the family tree of drosophilum fruit fly , squid , and human ! ) . if this line of argument hold up , we have quite a revolution in think on our hand . ( such think can of course go far overboard too . ) " chance lookalike " certainly do exist massively . sound symbolism be a typological basis for their recurrence . the too-easy use of " chance lookalike " to reject comparison can however also be just like the too-easy use of " substrate " and many other way of purport to explain phenomenon , but in reality merely name them without do the hard work of really explain them . as another factual contribution to the discussion of greenberg 's error , bob rankin clarify for me at the aaa meeting that he have look at greenberg 's original notebook , and that apparently what happen be that greenberg have a single flexible flap in his notebook bear the language name , and sheet which he match up against that to enter datum for particular lexical item . this be a mechanism subject to error of the two piece of paper slip vertically relative to each other , and in fact there be rather a large number of such error . it be error of row rather than of column ( as i loosely have assume without ever bother to ask if row or column ) . mr . poser originally ask on 9th november whether " limitation [ of the comparative method ] have be and be be use to justify resistance to proposal of emote relationship . . . " please take careful note of this word , as mr . poser change the word in his message of 14 december , when he assert no example have be give . i give mr . poser an eyewitness account satisfy the word he use . i stand by that eyewitness account . ( i do not like name name ever in these matter , but mr . poser 's assertion could be answer only by an eyewitness account . ) none of mr . poser 's suppose rebuttal in his recent message be at all relevant to that claim , though it be relevant to another claim , an absurd one , that i do not make . ( as in his previous message , mr . poser mix several different wording of what be quite radically different hypothesis . any extend discussion of these variant would not be relevant to any of our central point , so i omit them . ) to be specific about that absurd claim i do * not * make , i quite agree with mr . poser that some of the same people also criticize greenberg 's hypothesis base on the factual datum . i have never deny that , and in fact take pain to refer to other good work by the same people , and have alway emphasize the importance of have correction of datum . mr . poser 's conclusion be : ) it thus appear , as i think , that there be no real example of perceive ) limitation of the comparative method be use as the basis for reject ) proposal of genetic affiliation . since i give an eyewitness account of such an example of the perceive limitation be use as one basis for reject proposal of genetic affiliation , mr . poser can only maintain his original assertion by convert it into a different assertion as he have here , namely that there be no case of a person use those perceive limitation as " the " ( read " the only " ) basis for reject such proposal . i will simply repeat that in the case to which i be eyewitness , the tone of the presentation be quite clear that the absurdity of the time depth be sufficient * * * in and of itself * * * to rule out the legitimacy of attempt such distant comparison . ( a critique of error in greenberg 's datum be not directly relevant to this point , even if engage in by the same person . ) apparently mr . poser want his ally to be person who not only do good work , but also do nothing wrong . but we cannot posit such a division between the " holy " and the " unclean " , like the caste distinction of traditional indium . no one have the right to take such a position vi a vi other good-faith researcher , however much they may disagree with datum , result , or method . i gather from some conversation at the aaa that some of the people involve have become more moderate since the earlier year in these matter , at least in their public statement . that be certainly all to the good . there be also small beginning of development of method which may turn out to be relevant to our current limitation . i be perplex by mr . poser 's discussion of the suppose rule of use only three-consonant match never merely two-consonant match . although i use siouxan - yuchus , because some amerindianist be consider this , the point do not depend in the slightest on whether one believe these two particular node be relate or not . perhap someone can propose another alternative ( i would suggest look for one in tibeto - burman , where perhap only one consonant , one vowel , and tone would be available , and yet the genetic relation be in some case secure . ) i agree with mr . poser that it be better to have three consonant than two , and precisely because it help to avoid chance resemblance . as i state in the previous message . that means that the only difference between us be that mr . poser will consider treat the prefer method ( 3 consonant ) as the only permit one : ) if ( probably contrary to fact ) , match of three consonant be ) necessary to exclude chance , . . . i do not see why we should be ) unwil , in that case , to conclude either that they be not ) relate or that , if they be , the relationship be not demonstrable . the problem here be the notion that such a particular rule * could even conceivably * be " necessary to exclude chance " . no rule be necessary to exclude chance . a large number of procedure and method can * * * help * * * to exclude chance . except in the most difficult case of all , probably most single rule can be violate , and there will still be enough other way of exclude chance that a good result can be achieve . it be this fossilization in the response to expansion of the method available as part of " the comparative method " which be damage to increase the rigor as well as the power of our field . it be encourage to see session on distant language relationship . i firmly believe some of these session would not be occur nor would there be so much work on study method , if greenberg have not publish that book . some of the growth of interdisciplinary cooperation and communication be also in the process of happen anyway , and greenberg just accidentally publish at this time . ( i be not try to credit him with cause all of this interest . ) i particularly like john colarusso 's contribution to the eurasian session , because he outline his view on why distant language comparison be very difficult because of the progressive loss of datum , yet he be not in the business of criticize people who attempt these . he be in the business of himself contribute to a deepen of both linguistic and mythological comparison as much as he can in area which be still to a great extent unchart . johanna nichol also provoke much think with her method , and way of integrate more information on periphery v . center of innovation and residue of repeat wave of innovation visible even at the periphery , as a pattern to look for in project a homeland backward in time . i be somewhat skeptical about very distant language comparison which involve only identity of sound correspondence , precisely because it be so easy for this approach to select a very old but still relatively more recent layer of borrowing ( more recent than the node on the family tree we may be struggle to find a way to reach ) . as greenberg point out , an increase in the number of condition context over time , once it approach the number of lexical item available for comparison , lead to the result that there be virtually no recurrence of exactly the same sound correspondence . please see a separate message on how we can sharpen our tool to deal with this , title " typology of historical change " . this means that i start out somewhat skeptical about alan bomhard 's nostratic and similar comparison , precisely because he use only or preferentially sound correspondence of identity . but that may be my personal bias , and i may end up grant that such a strictness of sound correspondence can actually work over great time depths . i cannot presume to know . there be one session i do not attend but report here from the abstract , in which researcher report result of mitochondrial dna study of the various native american population . as expect , eskimo and athabaskan be separable ( one variety each ? ) . the remainder of native american population share four variety of mitochondrial dna , either without subgroup , or perhap in two major subgroup . bob rankin do attend and say that the author in their presentation have come down on the side of two major subgroup . population genetics need not match language directly , but the datum be still at least interest and obliquely relevant . . . lloyd anderson
