Subject: " syntax and the comparative method

concern syntax and the comparative method : if i understand it correctly , amr @ are . c . wayne . edu ( no name ) apparently believe that under certain circumstance one can indeed use syntax as part of the comparative method and cite among other thing , the case of a neuter plural in classical greek and old iranian use with a verb in the singular and its possible implication for a similar structure in the proto - language . while i do in theory believe that a particular construction can indeed survive the ravages of time and give us clue to the syntax of earlier level , this must always be the last criterium we apply and can almost never be use as a sort of proof - unless of course , ( i believe scott de lancey mention it , but i ' m not sure ) we can show that , for example , all ergative case ending ( i believe the example be tibeto - burman ) can be trace back to a common form and the morphology , when reconstruct from the 'd aughter ' language , conclusively point , in this case , to an ergative ' mother ' language . otherwise , john cowan seem to have sum it up best , cite robbin burl 's book : man 's many voice . . . just as every language at one point or another borrow lexeme from another langauge , there be literally thousand of example of langauge borrow syntactic construction from other language , whether substrat or not - even english have a good share of these borrowing . we cannot forget that an extremely large portion of the world 's population be by necessity bus - or tri-lingual , many of whom cannot even read their own native language , not to mention the other ( s ) or have any kind of linguistic train or sensitus - vity and would therefore pay much attention as to what language a particular construction come from . there be also the famous ' sprachbund ' , such as the balkan area and to a certain extent south asium , where through everyday necessity , a large part of the population speak at least two langauge , as be show in the case of the village along the maharastra - mysore boundary , ( mention by john cowan above ) where one can translate word-for - word from one language into another , although the language be not - strictly speak - relate . in this case , though , it do n't even seem to make sense to speak of language family . in my opinion , the only possible connection be that of language contact or sprachbund . maybe that be part of the problem - what be ' relate ' language , anyway ? we must also remember that this process have undoubtedly be go on ever since people could speak . it would n't be difficult to propose , go back to our start point , a theoretical language contact area for greek and iranian . for example , georgian , at least the modern language , only use the plural verb for human . although object can appear in the plural , the verb appear in the singular . as there have alway be greek ' colony ' throughout the region , one could just as well assume a kind of sprachbund for the whole region at that time , which would be even easier as we know so little about the pre-historic era in that region , make it difficult to disprove . even today , there be certain ' areal ' characteristic such as evidential perfect , and many language be , or have be at one point , split ergative in the region stretch from nepal to the caucusus , etc . seen in this light , then , we can't really speak of the ' oddity ' of the construction with a neutral plural take a verb in the singular , which , by the way , in my opinion at least , do have a certain semantic justification and be by no means ' odd ' . concern indo - aryan , the comparative method apply to syntax would certainly give us the ( wrong ) conclusion that vedic sanskrit be a split-ergative language , as all modern indo - aryan language except standard oriya and begalus ( and assamese ? ) be either ergative or split - ergative language , and many dialect of these three langauge be also split-ergative language . as there be several hundr ia ' langauge ' , would n't we be force to assume that this go back to the parent language ? but there be also a problem here with the traditional method . we have ( to a large extent ) cognate ending for the ergative case . so why be n't vedic a split-ergative language ? because we have go back too far . split ergativity is part of the ' parent ' language , but this be presumably to be find in middle indic . for a language family about which we know next to nothing , then , this would certainly lead to tremendous error . so , it seem to me that , although there are indeed useful insight to be gain by look at the syntax , it should , as i state earlier , alway be the last criterium , if use at all , in argue for a kind of genetic relationship . when we have no write history of the people of the area , very little in the way of document sound change , etc . , we simply cannot say anything yet about the syntactic structure of the proto-language . that will undoubtedly come about in the course of time , but it be just one of many feature , none of which alone can ' prove ' anything , except perhap contact . if there be enough of the ' unlikely ' correspondence ( i . e . ' ist / sind ' and ' est / sunt ' ) , then one can speak with relative security of a genetic relationship , whatever that exactly means . john peterson , kiel , germany
