Subject: 

finnish helena halmarus . a government approach to finnish-english intrasentential code-switching . 1994 naturally occur finnish - english bilingual conversation be examine to discover the principle constrain the distribution of intra-sentential code - switch . it be argue that the syntactic notion of government be the relevant one , in particular di sciullo , muysken , and singh 's ( 1986 ) government constraint ( gc ) on code-switch , accord to which code-switch within a govern element be possible if and only if the govern element include a " language-carrier " whose language index be identical with the language index of the governor . in govern position the rich finnish inflectional morphology function as language-carrier . evidence for the gc be provide not only by the datum that conform to the constraint , but also by those datum which be near - violation of this constraint and consistently accompany by severe repair phenomenon ( pause , hesitation , false start , and backtrack . it be claim that these repair phenomenon ' break ' the government relation when it be about to be violate . in a few instance an explanation for code-switch need to be look for in sociolinguistic factor , such as interspeaker variation . available from gsil publication , usc . e - mail : gsil @ usc . edu greek theme in greek linguistic paper from the first international conference on greek linguistic , read , september 1993 i . philippaki-warburton , k . nicolaidis and m . sifianou ( ed . ) ( university of readingl ( university of athen ) this volume bring together 65 conference papers , whose aim be to provide a comprehensive state-of - the-art in greek linguistic . paper concern all the standard topic : syntax , semantics and pragmatic within current model such as principle & parameter , hpsg , and relevance theory ; phonology and phonetics ; discourse , style and speak and write discourse include miscommunication , metaphor and politeness issue ; ancient and modern greek dialect such as macedonian , cypriot , and pontic , as well as issue like social and geographical variety , diglossium and language acquisition and the use of computer for the analysis , translation and teach of greek . also include an index of author , language and main key word . current issue in linguistic theory , 117 xviius 520 pp . + index hb 1-55619 - 571 - 0 $ 79 . 0 historical ling study in language origin , volume 3 jan wind , abraham jonker , robin allott and leonard rolfe ( ed . ) this collection bring together the best papers present at recent meeting of the language origin society . the volume reflect the diversity of approach from many discipline that be use to unravel the mystery of the origin of language : linguistics , anatomy , physiology , paleoanthropology , neuropsychology , physical anthropology , etc . xviius , 344 pp . hb 1-55619 - 497 - 8 $ 79 . 0
