Subject: usage - base model - symposium

announce the sixth biennial symposium of the rice university department of linguistic usage-based models of language rice university march 15-18 , 1995 invited speakers : mira ariel tel aviv university joan bybee university of new mexico john du boi university of californium , santa barbara michael israel university of californium , san diego sydney lamb rice university ronald langacker university of californium , san diego tom givon university of oregon brian macwhinney carnegie - mellon university janet pierrehumbert northwestern university john sinclair university of birmingham ( u . k . ) arie verhagen university of utrecht description : the goal of this symposium be to explore approach to linguistic theory that have in common the aim of account for linguistic usage . the empirical datum for such theory be not restrict to linguistic intuition about acceptibility , but come from usage event of vary type . the focus be on the pattern find in the various sort of usage datum examine , and how those pattern can be extract , represent , and use by the human mind . research from a variety of tradition will be represent , include corpus-base analysis , discourse study , experimental study of language process and language acquisition , and instrumental phonetics . the approach take can be call data-driven , rather than model-driven , in that the fewest possible prior assumption be make about what type of datum be relevant , and that large set of usage event be observe so that the detail pattern find in actual usage can emerge . moreover , the various approach take show sign of converge toward a view of language as a dynamic system in which linguistic knowledge be not separate from its process in language use . the linguistic model represent this view be usage-based by virtue of three factor : ( 1 ) the importance place on usage datum for theory construction ; ( 2 ) the direct incorporation of process ( production and comprehension ) into linguistic theory ; and ( 3 ) the requirement that the model arrive at , whatever the direct source of evidence , must be testable with reference to language use . registration : no charge . symposium attendance on a space-available basis . for further information , contact suzanne kemmer ( kemmer @ ruf . rice . edu ) or michael barlow ( barlow @ ruf . rice . edu ) snailmail : dept . of linguistic , rice university , houston tx 77251-1892 .
