Subject: cfp : spatial expression

( < first call for papers ) > < < first call for papers > > < < first call for papers > > ijcai-95 workshop on the representation and process of spatial expression fourteenth international joint conference on artificial intelligence ( ijcai-95 ) montreal , canada 1 day during 19th - 21st august 1995 organising committee klaus - peter gapp ( saarbruecken , germany ) jugal kalita ( colorado , usa ) paul mc kevitt ( sheffield , uk ) amitabha mukerjee ( iit , kanpur , indium ) patrick olivier ( aberystwyth , uk ) junichus tsujius ( umist , manchester , uk ) laure vieu ( irit , toulouse , france ) wolfgang wahlster ( dfki , saarbruecken , germany ) yorick wilk ( sheffield , uk ) workshop issues : there be be many different approach to the representation and process of spatial expression include geometric schema , semantic net , fuzzy set and predicate logic . yet most exist computational characterisation have so far be restrict to particularly narrow problem domain , that be , specific spatial context determine by overall system goal . to date , artificial intelligence research in this field have rarely take advantage of study of language and spatial cognition carry out by the cognitive science community . one of the intention of this workshop be to bring together researcher from both discipline in the belief that artificial intelligence have much to gain from an appreciation of cognitive theory . in addition to present original research participant will be ask where possible to address the follow question : o how do your work draw upon , differ from , refine or extend exist linguistic , cognitive and artificial intelligence approach ? what be the limitation and assumption of your approach ? o how should knowledge about space be represent ? what be your underlie knowledge representation and reason formalism and what issue have motivate your choice ? o how important be the issue of cognitive plausibility ? o how should the lexicon be organise with respect to spatial preposition and spatially relevant word ? how can multiple meaning for such word be accommodate ? o the mean of spatial expression cannot be address in isolation . indeed spatial expression be use in many different physical context and environment . how should the meaning of individual spatially relevant word be compose during process to obtain meaning of complex spatial expression ? o object knowledge be generally think to play an important role in the interpretation of spatial word especially spatial preposition . how can this be realise and be there any other factor which affect the interpretation of spatially relevant word ? o how language dependent be your approach ? o what be the open question ? submission requirements : electronic submission be strongly encourage ( preferably self-contain latex ) . paper must be print to 8 1 / 2 " x 11 " size . they must be a maximum of 15 page , each page have no more than 43 line , line be at most 140mm long and with 12 point type . title , abstract , figure and reference must be include within this length limit . four copy should be mail to the address below . double side print be encourage . patrick olivier e - mail : plo @ aber . ac . uk centre for intelligent system tel : + 44 970622447 university of wale fax : + 44 970622455 aberystwyth dyfe , sy23 3db , uk deadlines : submission deadline : 13th march 1995 notification of acceptance : 13th april 1995 camera ready copy due : 27th april 1995 publication : accept papers will be publish in the workshop note / preprint by ijcai . if there be sufficient interest it be intend that a book will be publish base on the workshop note .
