Subject: qs : laryngeal phonetics

dear colleague : i have a number of question regard laryngeal phonetics . 1 . i understand that english voice stop be phonetically voiceless unaspirate in initial position . ( data be cite in kingston & diehl 1994 : 432-434 . [ kingston , john , and randy l . diehl , 1994 , phonetic knowledge , _ language _ 70 : 3 . 419-454 . ] ) what be the story about pretonic intervocalic allophone after unstress , short vowel , e . g . fidelity , legality , mobility ? to my ear they sound the same as in delegate , gallon , billion , but to my english - prejudice ear they also sound voice . 2 . what be the story about laryngealization or creaky voice ? i have see this describe as " a very slow vibration through only one end of the vocal cord " ( crystal , _ dictionary of linguistic _ ( ? inexact citation ) ) . what be the arytenoid cartilage do at the posterior end of the vocal fold ? how be it relate to the closure for glottal stop and for glottalize consonant ? 3 . what be go on with the articulation of " stage whisper " speech ? in whisper , the arytenoid be rotate so as to adduct the posterior end of the vocal fold at their anterior end , but the posterior end of the arytenoid be not themselve adduct by the interarytenoid muscle , leave a restrict , triangular open at which sibilant-like turbulence be generate in place of voice . introspect , stage whisper seem to me to be like whisper only with some turbulence as air pass the closure of the main ( anterior ) portion of the vocal fold . there seem to be somewhat higher subglottal air pressure , like a " shout " whisper , but it do not seem to be merely a question of force air past the close vocal fold . there seem to be some additional difference of articulation to produce the turbulence over the vocal fold , as evidence at least by increase tension in observable laryngeal and ( to some extent ) pharyngeal muscle . it also seem to me that some degree of pharyngealization be an incidental byproduct . 4 . how be this relate to pharyngeal spirant , as exemplify by arabic ? 5 . kingston and diehl ( 1994 : 441 ) say that " in language such as english " ( mean , i take it , language without contrastive voice aspirate ) the phonological distinction [ + / - voice ] be signal in part by aspiration initially , but not ( if i read them right ) intervocalically . more important , it be say , be the ratio of duration of consonant to duration of vowel , or perhap the duration of v to vc syllable rime ( ? ) . can someone say more about this ? these question bear on characteristic of a language i be work on . in the near term for purpose of define the issue and refine research strategy , specific information will be more helpful to me than pointer to the literature , because my access to research library resource be not easy ( actually , it 's rather difficult ) , but i will need the pointer too and must of course eventually follow them up . all help will be greatly appreciate . please respond to me and not to the list . if there be interest i will post a summary . bruce nevin bn @ lightstream . com
