Subject: call workshop optionality

- call for papers - call for papers - call for papers - the research institute for language and speech ( ots ) , utrecht university , organize a . . . . . workshop on optionality to be hold on september 1 - 2 , 1995 . keynote speaker : jane grimshaw ( rutger ) tony kroch ( penn ) tanya reinhart ( tel aviv / utrecht ) edwin william ( princeton ) in the history of generative linguistics , there have be a shift from construction-specific rule to general principle . in the minimalist framework of chomsky ( 1993 ) , movement be argue to be a last resort operation : it may only take place if it be trigger , that be , if movement be require to escape ungrammaticality . this concept , which gradually take shape in the late eighty ( cf . travi 1986 ) , be refer to as " economy " . now , although economy be conceptually attractive , it face serious problem when confront with optional movement : by hypothesis , a movement be block if it do not have to take place . optionality be widely attest in natural language . one may even claim that there be situation in which it be typical that two or more variant of a construction coexist . in this workshop we would like to explore in what way the problem of optionality can be approach . one would like to have a theory that predict which type of optionality may be expect in natural language . we would therefore like to invite papers that deal with the theoretical problem of optionality . paper may focus on optionality in the steady state or on optionality in situation of language acquisition and language change . in addition to 4 ( invite ) keynote talk , we have 12 slot for 35 min . papers . please send 5 copy of an anonymous two-page abstract , one camera-ready version and a 3x5 " card with name ( s ) of author ( s ) , title of paper , affiliation , phone number and e-mail address to : workshop on optionality , research institute for language and speech ( ots ) , utrecht university , tran 10 , 3512 jk utrecht , netherland . we hope to be able to ( partially ) reimburse speaker . the deadline for submission be may 1 , 1995 . submission by e-mail or fax will not be accept . for further information contact neeleman @ let . ruu . nl or weerman @ let . ruu . nl .
