Subject: reat of loss for " basic " vocabulary

some month ago there be an extend discussion of the proposal make in the fifty by swadesh that there be certain list of meaning which have the property that the word express them be lose at a fairly constant rate per millennium in all language , in particular , a certain 100 - mean list where the rate be around 86 % . while note that bergsland and vogt have adduce example where the rate seem to be lower , i point out that i have not find any example where it be clearly higher . jacque guy refer to the eastern greenlandic datum discuss by bergsland and vogt in current anthropology in 1962 , but , have just carefully read this paper , i see that they state that , while they surmise that the rate here be higher , they cannot calculate what be be ( presuumably because there be no source for greenlandic that be old enough ) . moreover , the purely conjectural rate of 72 % which they mention be still low enough for the purpose of the original discussion we be have about this , namely , to assure that in a family with enough ramification there would be a substantial portion of the original vocabulary reflect in at least two descendant after far more than 10 , 0 year ( provide each language be independely lose 28 % of the original vocabulary per millennium ) . i do n't have the number handy , but jacque , who be better at this anyway , can probably whip some up . but i should also add that bergsland nd vogt 's datum be also consistent with many other assumption , notably , that the rate of retention in e . greenlandic be 86 % , but that it be substanitally lower in some other eskimo language ( because all they have be the result that e . greenlandic be as different lexically from w . greenlandic as the two together be from yupik , which make no sense give the family tree if the rate be the same eveywhere ) . but this could be due to slower vocabulary loss in yupik ( or even in the common ancestror of e . and w . greenlandic , or both ) just as well as to faster loss in e . greenlandic . so there be no justification that i can find for bergsland and vogt 's or guy 's assumption that the " prolem " lie in a faster rate of loss in e . greenlandic .
