Subject: re : 5 . 1484 comparative syntax

since chet creider 's post of 8 dec rightly correct some misinformation i give in my off-the - top-of - the-head post about karamojong , i decide to make amends by do a little research ( very little ) to check the rest of what i say . consider it a xma gift . below be the relevant section of recent nilo - saharan classification ( sudanic : nilotic ) . it 's basically the same as greenberg ( 1963 ) with some refinement in further branch but no rearrangement of limb . east sudanic have four branch , include eastern and western , then nilotic with three branch , include west , east and south . karamojong belong to the east branch of the nilotic branch of east sudanic . it be therefore classify as closer to maasaus ( maa - lotuko branch ) and barus ( barus branch ) than to the lwo branch of the west branch of nilotic , but no closer to kalenjin , a group in the south branch ( e . g . , nandus ) than to the west branch . the follow be a relatively recent classification , such as find in schadeberg 's ( 1981 ) article on nilo - saharanisch . central sudanic : moru - madus - lugbara etc east sudanic : eastern : nubian western : tama , daju kuliak : ik , so nilotic : west : ( some call it north nilotic ) burun : idem nuer - dinka : idem lwoo : north : shilluk , anwak south : achoolus , luo east : ( some call it central nilotic ) barus : barus , kakwa etc maa - lotuko : maasaus etc teso - turkana : karamojong , jie etc south : kalenjin : nandus - markweta : nandus , tuken elgon : sapiny , pok okiek / dorobo : sogoo etc datoga : etc beside the bewilder array of east and west branch of branch down the sudanic line i can trace my inaccuracy to conolly 's mention of jie . as a language , jie , along with karamojong and various other language such as teso , be part of the teso - turkana branch of east nilotic . however , in an earlier classification , e . g . , crazzolara ( 1938 ) , jii be the name use for west nilotic ( or at least the current lwo and nuer - dinka branch ) . jii means " people " ( or " ordinary people " ) in most of the west nilotic language , hence the classificational name . the dinka call themselve " jieng ' " . i suspect that the east nilotic jie ( also spell " jiye " ) be the same word , but i have n't check if the jie actually call themselve that . african language nomenclature be full of term not use by the speaker themselve ( but often by sarcastic neighbor , so that , for example , while the dinka evidently see no stigma in their autonym , the achoolus use the term somewhat like english use the term " the mass " , cf . hous pollous ) . just for fun let 's see how accurate what i say be about the number from one to ten be . we do n't need six through nine , because they be compound of five plus number under five . the datum for most language be restrict to what i happen to have within reach without do library research . however , the datum for barus and teso ( ateso , in my experience ) be from transcription of recording i make a long time ago in east africa before i even know how these language be classify . i do n't have publish linguistic datum on hand for them . in all case i have simplify orthography for typographical ease ( lose information ) . for example , the " h " follow a vowel refer to the retract ( lax - sound ) tongue root position of that vowel . the nilotic language have complex vowel system with " tense " and " lax " subsystem . of course , lexical number by themselve do not prove anything about genetic af finity . nevertheless , some interest pattern emerge to compare with the currently accept classification scheme . west nilotic : achoolus anwak luo dinka nuer 1 ace : hl achyehloh achiel tok kehl 2 aryo : h areahu ariyo rou rahu 3 adeek adahgoh adehk diak dyohk 4 ang ' we : hn ang ' wehnoh ang ' wen ng ' wan ng ' wan 5 abiic abiyuh abihch dhiec dye : ch 10 apaar apar apar thiaar wahl the first consonant in ' 5 ' seem to be diagnostic of the distinctness of nuer - dinka from the lwoo group . otherwise , dinka ' 1 ' be wierd , and so be the first consonant of dinka ' 10 ' ( cf . dinka - nuer ' 5 ' ) , but not much wierder than a comparison of indo - european number ( cf . germanic ' 4 - 5 ' or slavic ' 9-10 ' ) . reconstruction be not difficult , although you do n't have an accurate transcription of the vowel distinction ( or tone ) . east and south ( nandus ) nilotic : ( afro - asiatic : cushitic ) barus teso maasaus nandus somalus 1 kyele ' diopetus - bo akenge kow ( southern also ' hal ' ) 2 morehk iyere - re aeng lamma 3 msalum : iu ~ lus - unus somok siddah 4 ingwan iwong ' wahn - ong ' uan angwan afar 5 mukanad ikany imiet mut shan 10 pwahk itomony tomon taman tommon the number ' 2 ' and ' 4 ' be consistent with west nilotic . otherwise , lexicon appear to be areally define . first maasaus and nandus seem to have a cognate for west nilotic ' 5 ' . however , maasaus be classify with barus and teso as east nilotic . thus , barus and teso seem to share an innovation for ' 5 ' which do not extend to maasaus or south nilotic . meanwhile the cognacy of barus ' 3 ' with teso and maasaus be questionable , and nandus ' 3 ' be beyond the pale . interestingly , my datum for barus have ' 10 ' as give , while greenberg give barus ' 10 ' as " mere " in one of his mass cognate set ( p . 106 ) . " pwahk " fit in with the west nilotic set , but presumably g 's datum come from a publish source . ( i have n't loo ked at my datum since i transcribe it - - several decade , but i relisten to my barus tape to make sure i have n't transpose the word for ' 10 ' with some other word like ' toothbrush ' . ) by the way , teso be closely relate to karamojong so i would expect the number to be similar , include the cushitic loan for ' 10 ' , but with doubt about whether karamojong ' 5 ' would follow the maasaus or barus - teso pattern . ( gotta go to the library for this one . any volunteer ? ) the word for ' 10 ' in the other east and south nilotic language be recognise by g as a loan from somalus or one of the mutually intelligible gallum language of cushitic . that 's why i give the somalus number above . easy to see it would be a lot more difficult to argue for somalus as nilotic than for the other language [ uhm , if their other lexical correspondence behave like their number - - which they do . . . g actually use the example of cushitic multiple of ten in maasaus in his argument against meinhof 's nilo - hamitic hypothesis . cushitic be part of " hamitic " in the older terminology ( " afro - asiatic " be g 's coinage for older " semito - hamitic " ) . . note nubian ' 10 ' below . . thus , g have be as sharp to use argument about borrow against his opponent as have his opponent against him . what to do ? east sudanic central sudanic nubian lugbara 1 we : rum aluh 2 awum irus 3 toskum na 4 kemsum su 5 dijum towus 10 dimnum muhdrus wow ! number do n't help unite nubian as a branch of east sudanic with nilotic . obviously other criterion be use . for superifical impression nubian ' 10 ' look promise as cognate with south and most of east nilotic , and maybe it be , but that card have already be play non-genetically above - - and with good reason . . g , p106 again , compare barus ' 10 ' " mere " with khordofan nubian " bure " for the same ) . as central sudanic , lugbara may be expect by the naive to be even more different from nilotic than nubian , but the number do n't show that . g use lugbara ' 2 ' in his mass cognate set for the unity of central and east sudanic . interestingly , he also use dinka ' 1 ' , the wierd one for west nilotic , in the same mass cognate set - - for comparison with ' 10 ' in some central sudanic group . lot of interest claim there , e . g . , the most common west nilotic word for " one " be not proto - west nilotic , let alone proto - nilotic ( despite the suggestiveness of barus and nandus ' 1 ' above ) . g could be right , for all i know . anyway , i ' m just as interest in the areal cross-current as in the hypothesis about genetic relationship . thus , other implication emerge from g 's mass comparison s , e . g . , the pan - nilotic word for ' 4 ' must be an areal innovation ( maybe in proto - nilotic ) since it do not occur elsewhere in nilo - saharan , or in any other know language group for that matter . so , ok . we have some pretty strong hypothesis . i have n't follow nilo - saharan study closely , though nubian , but the number do n't show that . g use lugbara ' 2 ' in his mass cognate set for the unity of central and east sudanic . interestingly , he also use dinka ' 1 ' , the wierd one for west nilotic , in the same mass cognate set - - for comparison with ' 10 ' in some central sudanic group . lot of interest claim there , e . g . , the most common west nilotic word for " one " be not proto - west nilotic , let alone proto - nilotic ( despite the suggestiveness of barus and nandus ' 1 ' above ) . g could be right , for all i know . anyway , i ' m just as interest in the areal cross-current as in the hypothese about genetic relationship . thus , other implication emerge from g 's mass comparison , e . g . , the pan - nilotic word for ' 4 ' must be an areal innovation ( maybe in proto - nilotic ) since it do not occur elsewhere in nilo - saharan , or in any other know language group for that matter . so , ok . we have some pretty strong hypothesis . i have n't follow nilo - sahara n study closely , though west african niger - congo ( actually the benue - kwa grou p of niger - congo ) . greenberg ( 1963 ) note that westermann also use the label for various east sudanic language ( w have do some fieldwork on nilotic ) , belus eve that they be relate to the west african niger - congo ( i . e . " sudanic " ) l anguage . since i have come across occasional grumbling , begrudge g 's niger - congo hypothesis as lift from westermann , it be fair to mention that g have t o separate w 's belief about " niger - congo " from his belief about " sudanic " . w be , of course , not influential in his belief about east sudanic anyway , as t he nilo - hamitic hypothesis be the more influential theory , give the ritual fa scination of european civilisation with its debt to ancient egypt and the near east , until g come along . anyway , to this day there be east and central sudanus c , but after g no * west sudanic . in sum , the unity of west nilotic would be evident to even the most rigorous ne o - grammarian , and be , west african niger - congo ( actually the benue - kwa group of niger - congo ) . greenberg ( 1963 ) note that westermann also use the label fo r various east sudanic language ( w have do some fieldwork on nilotic ) , believ ing that they be relate to the west african niger - congo ( i . e . " sudanic " ) lan guage . since i have come across occasional grumbling , begrudge g 's niger - c ongo hypothesis as lift from westermann , it be fair to mention that g have to separate w 's belief about " niger - congo " from his belief about " sudanic " . w w as , of course , not influential in his belief about east sudanic anyway , as the nilo - hamitic hypothesis be the more influential theory , give the ritual fasc ination of european civilisation with its debt to ancient egypt and the near ea st , until g come along . anyway , to this day there be east and central sudanic , but after g no * west sudanic . in sum , the unity of west nilotic would be evident to even the most rigorous ne o - grammarian , and be , of them do not practice the selective circularity metho d which g 's method be best equip to attack . they do not seem to be in a hur ry or even primarily concern with lump language into deeper and deeper pr oto-family . these be , after all , more primary concern for the use of ling uistic datum in the " history-explain / justifies-everythe " intellectual climate of the 19th century . given the current emphasis on typological detail and unus versal , and the counter-concern with cultural relativity and composite cultura l uniqueness , at least as cherish by amerindist as by any other linguist be cause of the amerindist anthropological tradition , accuracy of datum be a paramo unt concern , even if error be overwhelm by reliable fact in draw " big p icture " by the mass comparison method . so , g 's final destination may be a bump on the road for amerindist , or even a different road lead in a different d irection , and an unwelcome distraction - - like a flat tire . benjus
