Subject: comparative method and geoff pullum

i have a problem : geoff 's post sound like it assume ( a ) that there be only two side to the issue under discussion and ( b ) that one of them be " orthodox " and the other one ( the i be on , apparently ) little short of crazy , the suggestion be that those who defend the idea that there be linguistic relationship to be discover beyond the one which be know in 1840 or some such cut-off date ( the so-cal " remote " or " distant " connection ) may go so far as to accept that all of greenberg 's muskogean datum be wrong and yet to maintain that muskogean be amerind ( without cite any new datum ! ) . i think the reality be quite different . for example , victor gollum , karl teeter , and i ( although we have be debate some methodological issue relevant to nostratic ) be actually very close on most issue ( except the one under discussion , apparently ) and in particular on most issue concern the propose amerind group . there be lot of historical linguist with different ( and crossclassify ! ! ) view on these matter ( for example , eric hamp have be widely quote on his view against nostratic , yet he have be a staunch defender of altaic and of a connection between luoravetlan and eskimo - aleutian ; many of those who like nostratic do not like amerind ; and so on . i think each case deserve to be examine on its merit , the whole idea of contrast " orthodox " ( or " mainstream " ) with " remote " or " distant " comparison be without foundation and can lead to further needless polarization , and finally i feel that methodological issue and substantive one should be discuss separately ( and that the latter be the more important , even if the former be often the more seductive ) . and to close on a positive note ( consonant with the spirit of the season ) , if karl teeter and i can reach the point where our major remain disagreement be ( a ) whether in principle one could or could not write a comparative grammar of anglo - french , and ( b ) whether in fact the work do to date on nostratic be sufficient to take it as a work hypothesis that at least indo - european , uralic , altaic , kartvelian , and afro - asiatic be relate and go further , then i think we have achieve considerable progress ( and i be not even sure we even disagree about these point any more , for as the discussion go on , more and more mutual misunderstanding seem to disappear ) . there will , of course , remain a lot of hard work to be do , on these and even more on other language family , but i do not see why the inevitable disagreement should be consider any more of a problem than the disagreement within the indo - europeanist community about the different version of the laryngeal theory or about the glottalic theory , etc .
