Subject: re : 5 . 1414 native speaker intuition

i would like to make a few comment on marilyn silva 's question about control structure like ( 1 ) johnny ask the teacher to go to the bathroom . ( 2 ) johnny ask to go to the movie . which , at least for some native speaker , be acceptable and allow an interpretation with the matrix subject as the controller . i believe that the interpetation of these sentence be fully explainable in term of speech act semantics ( no syntax need here ) . first , it be clear that the person ask be a potential agent and that in the " unmark " case the empty subject be also suppose to an agent suppose to perform some future action specify by the verb phrase on the infinitive clause . therefore , the first option be object control . in the case of ( 1 ) this preferential interpretation be override by other pragmatic factor , such as the relative social status of the participant ( student v . teacher ) . it be relatively unlikely ( though not exclude ) that the student will ask the teacher to do something . therefore , it be seem reasonable to look for an alternative intepretation . in the case of ' ask ' = a reasonable antecedent of the understand subject be the the potential beneficiary of the request , i . e . the asker . the asker benefit from the potential action perform by the addressee of the request . johnny could certainly categorize as be the beneficiary of the situation " goe to the bathroom " . thus it seem plausible to referentially link the empty subject of = the infinitive complement . similarly , for a sentence like ( 3 ) john ask paulum to be assign for the task . which seem to involve control switch , i . e . switch from object control to subject control . in this case the passive construction overtly signal that the empty subject cannot be an agent . therefore , it 's implausible to assume coreference between the empty subject and the matrix object . but both john and the empty subject be potential beneficiary . well , not beneficiary not in the sense of case grammar or theta-role theory but in the sense of speech act semantics . what seem to at work here be a principle of " role identity " , which have be work out in some more detail in a recent article write by klaus - michael koepcke and myself in folium linguistica 27 . 57-105 . ( " a cognitive approach to obligatory control phenomena in english and german " ) . role be not understand there in the sense of case grammar but as " pragmatic role " . we also point out some interest difference = between control in english and german , for example , that sentence like ( 4 ) der polizist bat , den saal zu verlassen . ( literally : the policeman ask to leave the room ) can only be interpet as involve an " implicit controller " , i . e . an addresse or a set of addressee , which be not lexicalize . relate issue be also discuss in my recent book " kontrollph = e4nomene im englischen und deutschen aus semantisch-pragmatischer perspektive " publish by gunter narr verlag , tuebingen . by the way , koepcke and i find that native speaker 's intuition in these matter be really very unreliable and that linguist should think of more serious way of test what be possible in a language and what be not . klaus panther , university of hamburg , germany
