Subject: typology of historical change

typology of historical change this note try to make explicit what i take for grant , and have discuss with other on occasion , but which perhap need a more explicit statement . one of the most fruitful avenue of research in distant language comparison , i believe , be the growth of the field i call typology of historical change . under this rubric i include for example the work of johanna nichol ( whether or not i agree with any datum , finding or particulars of method , be not relevant to my point ; i still think it help our think along ) . i also include , and this be a challenge i want to issue , the * * * mode of discourse * * * in which mr . vovin ask recently for help in find typological parallel to a hypothesis he be interest in that a phrase mean " water fall " could fossilize ( ? ) into a basic word for " rain " . in response to his query , he get back some positive answer , example which people claim fit this description . as a method of reason , this be what we need more of . that be , more accumulation of attest example of particular change , to educate our intuition of what we naively think be " possible " semantic shift by ever more experience with what actual semantic shift be know or suspect . it will help us to improve our method of guestimate possible language relationship , because it will at least say that a give hypothesize semantic shift be frequently attest , so it be not strain to compare lexical item whose meaning differ in such and such a way . wherea by contrast another hypothesize semantic shift be not firmly attest . so such an unattest semantic shift should probably not be use in those distant language comparison which be themselve the most difficult to do , because over large time span the number of context-sensitive condition environment be as great as the number of lexical item available to compare , and thus there be few or no * * * recur * * * sound correspondence . in other word , as we move toward deeper comparison , we must more and more rely on way of measure " distance " of semantic shift and " distance " of phonological change , rather than measure repeat sound correspondence and semantic identity . we do not yet have our tool for do this very well sharpen , but we can proceed gradually to sharpen them . a study of the know attest case be the best start . in other word , if someone really want to see how our method fare with gradually more distant language comparison , and to see how some new method may fare , they should tabulate , for all know language relationship , ( a ) the proportion of sound-correspondence repetition in the comparable vocabulary ( and what " comparable " means be itself a variable , not exclusively define by ( b ) and ( c ) ) ( b ) the " semantic distance " along attest path of semantic change of lexical item be compare . where multiple such shift have be attest , the estimate " distance " count as closer , smaller . where few such shift have be attest , the estimate " distance " count as greater . we of course do not have enough such information in database form to use at present , but whatever we do have can be use provisionally , as explain in ( d ) ( c ) the " phonetic distance " along attest path of phonetic change of lexical item be compare . there be relatively more of this knowledge available than for phonological change . ( d ) explore how the three measure above vary as we go to greater time depths . that be , use first the more assure case , then the less assure one , how do a weight average of " closeness " of compare lexical item vary as we go to increase time depths ? how do the proportion of regular and often recur sound correspondence to unique or rarely recur sound correspondence vary as we go to increase time depths ? it be the development of the tool in ( b , c ) which will most advance our ability to compare at greater time depths , improve our method . i will be very grateful to anyone who point me to study which approximate to part of the program outline just above . " the comparative method " currently do not have the benefit of fully develop tool of this kind . to that degree , the current comparative method can be consider less rigorous than they ought to be , and for that reason not as powerful at distant language comparison as they will sometime come to be . a future comparative method can use these tool more and more precisely . the real challenge today to exist comparativist be to avoid artificially fossilize the term " the comparative method " , to avoid treat its method as fix and not subject to improvement and supplement with newer and more powerful method , as be the method in any other science . it would be healthy if the word " the " be drop from the term and it be make a mass or plural term " comparative method " . that imply no lessen of rigor . indeed , as i have be at pain to point out above , i firmly believe some of the limitation of the present state of comparative method result from a * * * lack of rigor * * * in the area of the typology of possible change ( phonetic , semantic , grammatical ) . work discuss by bill croft in the topic of syntactic reconstruction and typology be certainly relevant to the concern raise here . i think we be see the beginning of a new paradigm in the focus on path of change in language , and comparative-historical linguist will be leave behind if they do not add these technique to their box of tool ( while keep all the good technique they already have ) . lloyd anderson
