Subject: open letter to * language *

sally 's post in response to the open letter indicate that * language * have decide to have illich - svitych 's book review . that be good news - - unless this refer merely to the fact that late in 1990 or early in 1991 she ask eric hamp to do a review , which to my knowlege he decline to do . if indeed eric hamp be now go to review the book , i will be delight . but it be not the case ( as some have charge ) that the open letter be write in spite of the fact that the signer know , or could have find out , that a review be in the work . we be inform that hamp have decline . as recently as march 7 , 1994 , the language advisory committee seem to have no knowledge of such a review . in response to an appeal from me , the committee urge that * language * do something on this issue , but in july * language * inform me that it would not . this , together with the fact that the income editor of * language * tell me that he would have to stand by his predecessor 's decision ( something i can quite sympathize with ) be what prompt not just me but a number of distinguish member of the linguistic society to resort to the idea of an open letter . far from wish to be divisive , i ( and other ) have try since 1990 to address what we perceive to be a major omission , and to address it without public fanfare . however , this have have no effect . i report this with all due respect to the achievement of * language * under sally 's editorship , respect which i be sure be widely share . it seem to me that a request that she change an editorial decision can in no way harm that distinguish record . alexis manaster ramer p . s . since the original post , the follow people have ask to have their name add to the signatory of the letter : edith moravcsik sebastian shaumyan david stampe daniel radzinskus lloyd b . anderson - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - moderator ' message : we be take the unaccustome step of comment on a discussion , because it 's christmas and we would love to encourage peace on ( the linguistic ) earth if we could . with regard to a review of illich - svitych 's work , all party agree that : a ) * language * commission a review in 1991 b ) the original review be now unlikely to come in to us , these fact suggest both that ( a ) * language * act fairly in solicit discussion of nostratic and ( b ) the signer of the open letter act in good faith in request another review . the linguistic issue here be the merit ( or non-merit ) of the book . if subscriber would like to address this issue after the break , we ' ll be happy to post such message . otherwise , this discussion be close . peace ! helen & anthony postscript : since it 's difficult to discuss a book no one have read , we would like to remind you that the book be announce on linguist as " available for discussion . " contact the review editor for a copy if you qualify as a reviewer .
