Subject: comparative method

in response to poser , nichol do on p . 6 of her book claim that there be no way for the comparative method to distinguish between nostratic and " a much larger group of most lineage of the old world and new world " , that be , as she herself say , between hypothetical grouping of around c . 12000 and c . 40000 year ago , and she do say that this " because the cut-off point be so shallow " , the cut-off point be the ceil of 6000-10000 year which she impose ( wihout any basis , as note in my earlier message ) on the comparative method . since this amount to a rejection of the nostratic hypothesis ( not as false perhap but as unverifiable / unfalsifiable , i guess ) , this means that i be right and poser be wrong about whether there have be people who have reject particular theory of linguistic relationship on the basis of this mythical ceil idea . in response to teeter : i think ( and i hope karl will endorse this ) that our disagreement be really quite minor , but they be real as far as they go . for example , while karl be obviously 100 % right about meillet 's position in the scientium article ( where meillet say that lexical comparison can never prove a relationship , and only morphological one can ) , in his 1925 book meillet repeatedly state that you can establish a linguistic relationship purely on the basis of lexical correspondence , make the same point that i have be make over and over again here on linguist that for some language family this be the only way of show relationship since they lack morphology , and even make the same point that i do about how certain thing can only be do once you have establish , at least tentatively , that the language you be deal with be relate . as a matter of fact , he even show how you could demonstrate the relatedness of the romance language purely on the basis of a lexical comparison , use the numeral 1-10 , and then show how you could do that for the older indo - european language too ( although there he begin to slip in a little morphology ) . i would also like to add that i think it be a serious mistake to pretend that there be no model for comparative linguistics beside indo - european , because it be so utterly atypical of the language family of the world . there are plenty of equally well establish family , several of which be older in the only sense that matter , that be , not in year before the present but in year before the earliest write record and many of which be more useful model for those work on family not yet establish ( afroasiatic , austronesian , austroasiatic , uto - aztecan , altaic , etc . ) . which be not to say that there be anything wrong with know as much as possible about ie , but rather that there be much wrong with know naught but indo - european . i be not sure but i think that this be what eric hamp have in mind in a recent paper in the davi / iverson volume when he complain about how the teach of historical linguistics be hamper by textbook which largely draw their material from ie ( or indeed from some favor part of it , such as romance ) . and i be happy to have sally thomason point out that morphological element can be borrow . meillet we must remember be greatly trouble by the possibility of such a thing and of the existence of mix language . he try to debunk every example around , and think ( wrongly i think ) that if such language exist , then they cannot be handle by the comparative method . the fact that such language do exist ( e . g . , mitchif ) and yet pose no problem ( so that we have no trouble trace certain part of mitchif to french and other to cree ) means that meillet be worry for naught . but it also means that language classification on the basis of morphology be no more infallibible than that on the basis oif lexical material . you work with what you have available , which in some case may be largely morphology and only a few obvious lexical parallel ( that 's how afro - asiatic be first establish ) , morphology and lexicon ( indo - european ) , lexicon and a single morphological parallel ( algic , as victor gollum remind me just the other day ) , lexicon only ( vietname and the rest of mon - khmer ) , and so on and so forth .
