Subject: re : 5 . 1448 comparative method

the ongo discussion about the comparative method do not seem to be get anywhere on achieve real consensus in greenberg and anti - greenberg camp on the question of what would could as valid evidence that certain language family are relate at a large time depth . i wonder if it would not be a good idea to hear something - - from the defender of wide-range and large-time - depth comparison , preferably - - concern what would count as evidence against a genetic relationship ? as a concrete example , take the fact , recently cite by poser , that all the muskogean evidence in greenberg 's book have be find to be taint by datum error ( geoffrey d . kimball , a critique of muskogean , " gulf " , and yukian material in _ language in the america _ , ijal 58 ( 1992 ) , 447-501 ) . i can imagine how one may want to maintain that even this total collapse of the case on muskogean merely put us back in a state of be neutral , a priorus , on whether muskogean language be relate to other amerindian language , or to nostratic for that matter . antus - greenberg amerindianist be perfectly prepare to agree that the amerind language might have descend from a common source now lose . that 's neutrality . but suppose we move from that neutrality to the position that we will assume as a default that muskogean is amerind , and so be all the language of south america , and indeed , that amerind be relate to sino - tibetan and both to indo - european and thus nostratic and all of the above to khoisan . . . let us assume for the sake of argument that the world 's language be all genetically relate ; but let us take this to be an empirical assumption - - not just a willingness to reject the closet racism that poser say ruhlen once allege in his critic , or a yearn to find universal brotherhood , but an assumption against which evidence can in principle count . now , what sort of linguistic evidence would count , for greenberg and ruhlen and illich - svitych , as disproving the inclusion of muskogean or any other family in in the conjectural ( though tentatively assume ) proto - gaeic ? that be , what sort of datum pattern or configuration of phonological and grammatical property could suffice to make the macrocomparativist throw in the towel and go outside to meet the press and concede defeat ? there ought to be some imaginable scenario that would end up with ruhlen tell a group of reporter from the stanford daily and american scientist and other supermarket tabloid , " well , we think we could sustain the whole proto - gaeic thing , but that set of paradigm on haida have us beat ; we ' ve have to concede the haida case ; accord to our test , haida be unrelate to the other human language . " ( much scope for new press attention here : " haida indians are aliens from space , top expert admits . " ) but what sort of scenario would it have to be , to get the greenberg camp to admit that it be in grave trouble on some relatedness claim ? to be fair , orthodox comparativist may well say that if you put it like this , no answer should be expect . one can argue that a certain methodology apply to a certain set of datum yield no evidence for relatedness between burushaskus and bushman , but not that it refute such a relatedness . a positivist view of historical linguistics would see it as maintain hypothesis about verifiable relatedness in a very particular form : when i say that german " pfennig " come from an earlier germanic form with initial " p " that will be see in language like english with no history of a high german sound shift , i be count as have be support by the observation that english speaker say " penny " ; if the form turn out to be " twenny " i would be in trouble ; give german " pfund " i be commit to something like " pund " in english , and ( give the great english vowel shift ) the discovery of " pound " be more good news for me ; and so on . the prediction i be make be about an indefinitely extensible set of pair ( ger : pfxxx , eng : pxxx ) . now , the falsity of one of these could conceivably take to refute brittle form of the hypothesis that english cognate of german pf-word alway begin with p - , but it be n't nearly enough to be counterevidence to the whole english / german relatedness claim , of course . that claim would not be give up unless there be a complete collapse of all the evidence : if " pound " be establish textually to have be a coinage by a novelist who have never hear german , if " penny " be show to be borrow from italian " penne " during a period when pasta have be use for small change , and then all the other sound correspondence start collapse as well . i ' m ask this : if the 100 % collapse of greenberg 's muskogean evidence , as allege by kimball , do not count as a complete collapse of the case that muskogean be include in amerind ( hence , a fortiorus , of the case that it be in proto - gaeic ) , then i think i need some help in understand what could be evidence against that inclusion . there have better be something . + - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - + | g e o f f r e y k . p u l l u m * pullum @ cat . ucsc . edu | | stevenson college , university of californium , santa cruz , californium 95064 | | ( 408 ) 459-4705 * message ( 408 ) 459-2555 / 2905 * fax ( 408 ) 459-3334 | + - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - +
