Subject: judgment fatigue : summary , part i

summary of response to request for information on judgment fatigue ( also call syntactic satiation ) original post : linguist list : vol-6 - 974 . mon jul 17 1995 . issn : 1068-4875 . special thanks to the follow respondent : kimberly barskaitikus , tim beasley , elizabeth bergman , michael bernstein , vivian cook , joseph davi , rianne doeleman , karen emmorey , suzette haden elgin , ted hard , stephen helmreich , erika l . konrad , john e . limber , bruce nevin , john robert ross , carson t schutze , linda shockey , william snyder , karin stromswold , joyce tang boyland , anyone i may have miss , and anyone who think about respond but have n't yet . karin stromswold and william snyder have actually investigate this phenomenon . i have not read either of their papers yet , but i look forward to do so . william snyder ( snyder @ psyche . mit . edu ) present a poster on this topic at lsa 1994 , which be mention in rick hudson 's summary post of july 29 , 1994 . individual 's interest in dr . snyder 's poster should contact him directly . hudson 's post ( linguist list : vol-5 - 855 . frus 29 jul 1994 . issn : 1068-4875 . ) summarize the literature available which address the difference between linguist ' and non-linguist ' intuition . hudson also mention ( but do not cite ) four reference provide by joyce tang boyland regard satiation effect ( both syntactic and semantic ) . hudson 's original post be available from linguist list archive . joyce tang boyland 's response be include below ( in part ii of post , follow ) . karin stromswold 's response ( karin @ muddle . rutger . edu ) be my connection to snyder , hudson , and boyland . her post be most relevant to my original query and be include in its entirety below ( in part ii of post , follow ) . most response mention the influence of continual or repeat exposure over a period of time , either mention example similar to perceptual or semantic satiation such as a word-repetition effect . ( bergman , cook , davi , doeleman , haden elgin , hard , helmreich , limber , schutze , snyder , stromswold , tang boyland ) . there be many difference , however , between the effect of semantic satiation and " syntactic satiation " or judgment fatigue : first , semantic satiation be the detachment of form and mean which occur as you continuously repeat some lexical item ( see also stromswold 's post below ) . judgment fatigue , in contrast , cannot be induce by the repeat presentation of any sentence . in fact , publish experiment by naga show that rater ' intuition only become more stringent on repeat presentation . second , the loss of the mean of a sentence be not an effect of judgment fatigue . the mean of the sentence may be quite lucid to the individual read it , but that individual 's attention be focus upon some aspect of the grammatical acceptability of the sentence , and it be the ability to judge grammatical acceptability which be lose , not the ability to make sense of the utterance . third , while the particular characteristic of the stimulus which induce judgment fatigue be not yet fully establish , it appear that different type of sentence induce the effect to different degree ( stromswold , snyder as cite in hudson 's post ) . this be not the case for semantic satiation , where the repetition of any lexical item can induce the effect . fourth , the " scant out " effect as note by haj ross point out that the loss of intuition can be trigger by one single stimulus , not necessarily the repeat presentation of numerous stimulus ( relevant quote post below ) . conversely , subject can rate hundred of stimulus on the basis of grammaticality , with no fatigue effect ( beyond boredom ) , even if the stimulus contain permutation of the same lexical item , be they open or close class item . note that point four be definitely true in the case that the stimulus be all dichotomously " great - - grammatical " or " horrible - - ungrammatical " . there be a definite influence of marginality , an effect which , to date , i believe no one have explain . fifth , semantic satiation ( as well as perceptual fatigue effect ) be often attribute to some type of neurological fatigue at the cortical level . this could not be the ( only ) reason for judgment fatigue , however , because there may not be any single word or syntactic structure which be repeat in all of the stimulus ( such as could be the case for judgment fatigue induce by the scope of negation or negative polarity item ) . for this reason , it would be quite implausible to claim that judgment fatigue be the result of some type of physiological / chemical / neurological saturation which have occur at the cortical level . at this point , i do not believe judgment fatigue and semantic satiation have much in common as behavioral disturbance . ( incidently , while i be not an expert on semantic satiation , i have not yet be force by the evidence to believe that semantic satiation be the result of a low-level neurological fatigue . perceptual fatigue be a neurological phenomenon , but i attribute semantic satiation to other conceptual strategy . ) many linguist ( beasley , nevin , konrad , and one anonymous ) also observe ' that the longer you stay in linguistics , the less you speak english . ' to quote from bruce nevin 's response : < < a student be once ask , in my hear , if a certain famous linguist be a native speaker of english . the reply : ' i think he use to be . ' > > hudson 's previous summation further confirm that linguist and non-linguist do demonstrate significantly different ability in discriminate grammatical and ungrammatical sentence . this type of long-term " drift " of linguist ' judgment may be of interest in its own regard , but this type of " judgment drift " be not identical to the temporary loss of linguistic intuition which i intend to address . as note by beasley and konrad , it may indeed be the case that exposure to second language , exposure to dialect different from one native dialect , or exposure to a large number of perhap marginal sentence which occur rarely in natural speak or write context ( such as sentence demonstrate violation of theoretical principal such as " weak crossover " or " island constraint " , for example ) may actually alter an individual 's criterion for grammatical acceptability . if one understand judgment of grammatical acceptability to be metalinguistic type-categorization , then one may expect that an individual 's discriminative ability will be alter base upon that individual 's personal experience with exemplar of the category . other comment that judgment fatigue do not happen if the stimulus be contextualize ( davi , nevin ) or if the referential situation be more concrete rather than abstract ( davi , doeleman , nevin ) . this be not the case . a loss of linguistic intuition of grammatical acceptability definitely can happen spontaneously , such as while one be listen to a conversation or read text , regardless of the concreteness of the topic , with the follow qualification : judgment fatigue be inspire only by particular type of stimulus ( which have not yet be clearly define , but see part ii of post , follow ) and by the listener 's / reader 's focus upon the grammar of the utterance or sentence . other individual relate hard-to - comprehend sentence as example induce judgment fatigue . some such sentence , notably sentence involve scope ambiguity , may induce confusion , but confusion be not synonymous with the loss of one own linguistic intuition . for ambiguous or confuse stimulus , we say , " someone should rewrite this sentence . it be ambiguous ( or anomalous ) . " when we have judgment fatigue , we say , " i ' m a monoglot , but damn if i can decide whether this sentence be grammatical . i sure do n't feel like a native english speaker ! " lastly , some response or general expression of empathy or encouragement , and actual example ( barskaitikus , emmorey , shockey ) . thank you again to all who respond . if you be interest in the current proposal for my experiment , or if you would like to hear more about the result and conclusion from the experiment when i be finish run them , please contact me . please see part ii ( posted separately ) for selected quotes from respondents .
