Subject: query : preserve field recording

i have a question about preserve regular * analog * recording make in the field . i work in rural chinese , and for the most part i collect inventory of lexicon , along with some text . for ordinary background record of interview i have be use a $ 45 panasonic microcassette recorder on half-speed , which do * quite * serviceably even without an external mic . i intend to use ordinary high-bia non-metal cassette for material i want to work with in some detail , such as story , conversation , and recitation . i can transfer that to micro-cassette for transcription , so that the master remains in good condition . what concern me be find a way to preserve material originally make on analog tape . tape mildew rapidly in taiwan and southern china , and even in seattle and new york i have have tape become unplayable after a number of year in storage . i be think that if there be some inexpensive and painless way to digitize ordinary analog tape , i could transfer them to cd here at my school , for only the price of the cd itself ( about $ 12 ) . one problem be waste space : i can only fit 74 minute of uncompress sound on a cd , because one seem to have no choice but to record in stereo , even if the original source be mono . doe anyone have any experience with this ? i could get far more material onto a cd if i compress it but i do n't want to do that , because i have no confidence that today 's compression protocol will be readable in 20 or 50 year - remember the datum from the 1960 us census , which be store on magnetic tape and could no longer be read by the mid - 1980 's ? if something be important enough to preserve on cd , i do n't want it to become unreadable in a few decade . i 'd appreciate hear any idea on long-term storage . also , if anyone have idea about why digital equipment may still be preferable for my work , i 'd like to hear them . i will summarize the response i get . sincerely , david prager branner , yuen ren society asian l&l , do-21 , university of washington seattle , wa 98195 usa < charmius @ u . washington . edu > web : http : / / weber . u . washington . edu / ~ yuenren / circular . html
