Subject: edt

job opening in speech and language process bbn system and technology , cambridge , ma the speech and language process department at bolt beranek and newman inc . have several excite position in speech recognition , language understand and character recognition . to apply send your resume and indication of which position you be interest in to karen nicholson ( knicholson @ bbn . com ) . positions : apply computational linguist work with a research team to develop fieldable technology include advance prototype and product in information extraction system , include name recognition and template fill from newswire . experience in apply computational linguistics to real application , excellent skill as a programmer in c / c + + / lisp , and degree in computer science or relate field require . u . s . citizenship and willingness to get a dod clearance require . statistical computational linguist reserach and development of new technique and software for process large corpus , include language other than english , and language model for speech and nl system . master or phd in computer science or relate area , strong math / stat background , strong c program skill require . experience in lisp , splus , perl a plus . u . s . citizenship and fluency in a second language desirable . entry level researcher participate in a research group develop algorithm and build system for advance speech and language technology , provide support by implement algorithm , run experiment , collect and analyze datum . bachelor 's level in computer science , engineer , or relate field , excellent undergraduate gpa , experience in university research lab or summer internship , and program skill in c / c + + and unix require . some experience in speech or language technology a plus . u . s . citizenship and willingness to get a dod clearance desirable . application engineer design and implement application at the cut edge of speech and language technology , such as medical dictation , read and language learn assistant , transcription of telephone speech for deaf listener , topic identification from video , voice mail transcription , information extraction system . requirement : extensive experience in advance technology software system , include product-level code and documentation ; master level programmer in c / c + + , with at least one year 's experience each in unix and ms window ; experience in graphical user interface ; bachelor 's or master degree in computer science . lisp experience helpful . experience in field relate to speech and natural language a plus . u . s . citizenship and willingness to get a dod clearance desirable . algorithm developer work with a research team design and implement algorithm for large vocabulary continuous speech recognition , system incorporate voice input and output such as speak language system , and optical character recognition . requirement include master 's in computer science , mathematics , engineer , or relate field or equivalent expereince and excellent program skill in c / c + + and unix . background in one or more of the follow area desirable : statistical model , pattern recognition , speech process , character recognition . knowledge of lisp , splus , and perl a plus . the speech and language process department of bbn system and technology , a subsidiary of bolt beranek and newman inc . ( nyse : bbn ) , have be a world leader in computer-base speech and language research and development for 25 year . the department continue to make cutting-edge advance in the area of speech recognition , speaker and language identification , natural language understand , interactive speak language system , and datum extraction from text .
