Subject: sum : portugese

here be a summary of the response i receive to my recent request for reference on portuguese language and linguistics ( comment in bracket be simply a selection of those make by various respondent ) . thank to the respondent : bas aart , carlo ferreira , manuel forcadelum , carlo gouveium , rafael humberto scapin , frank van der leeuw , joana van der leeuw , stephen parkinson . for a general overview see the chapter by stephen parkinson in : m . harri & n , vincent ( ed . ) ( 1988 ) " the romance language " croom helm / routledge , london . suggest descriptive grammars be : celso cunha and lui filipe lindley cintra ( 1984 ) " novum gramatica do portugue contemporaneo " novum fronteira , rio / j . sa da costa , lisbon . ( the standard reference grammar in portuguese . there 's also an abridge version publish by the same editor : " breve gramatica do portugue contemporaneo " ) . han jurgen heringer & jose pinto de lima ( 1987 ) " palavra puxa palavra : comunicacao e gramatica dependencial " icalp , ministerio da educacao e cultura , lisbon . ( not a reference grammar in the ordinary sense of the word , but a good reflection on the structure and use of portuguese ) . maria helena mira mateus et . al . ( 1989 ) " gramatica da lingua portuguesa " caminho , lisbon . ( 2nd ed . ) . ( the best linguistic handbook . there 's now a 3rd ed . by the same publisher but i do n't find out the date ) . paul teyssier " manuel de langue portugaise " edition klincksiek . ( in french , a general , good and reliable description of contemporary portuguese ) . pilar vazquez cuesta y maria albertina mendez da luz ( 1971 ) " gramatica portuguesa " biblioteca romanica hispanica , editorial gredo , s . a . , madrid . ( in spanish , originally intend for student of portuguese as a foreign language ) . pilar vasquez cuesta & maria albertina mendez da luz " gramatica da lingua portuguesa " edico 70 , lisbon . ( portuguese translation of the above ) . suggestion on portuguese linguistics : carlo gouveium et al ( ed . ) ( forthcome 1995 ) " introducao a linguistica geral e portuguesa " caminho , lisbon . at a more elementary level , universidade aberta publish a range of book on portuguese , include : m . h . m . mateus et al " fonetica , fonologium e morfologium " h . h . c . campo & m . f . xavier " sintaxe e semantica " ivo castro " curso de historium da lingua portuguesa " on the history of the language : rodrigo de sa nogueira ( 1932 ) " curso de filologium portuguesa " lisboa . serafim da silva neto ( 1957 ) " manual de filologium portuguesa " sao paulo . serafim da silva neto " historium da lingua portuguesa " , editora presenta , rio de janeiro . paul teyssier " historium da lingua portuguesa " j . sa da costa , lisbon . ( the most accessible history of the language , an expand portuguese version of a book originally write in french ) . edwin bucher william ( 1938 ) " from latin to portuguese : historical phonology and morphology of the portuguese language " university of pennsylvanium press , pa and oup , oxford . ( also publish in ( brazilian ) portuguese : " do latim ao portugue " edico tempo brasileiro ltda , biblioteca tempo universitario 37 ( 1961 ) , rio de janeiro . )
