Subject: e-mail citation summary

about a week ago i post a query ask how to cite e-mail message . i 'd like to thank the follow people for their prompt and informative response : david stampe joseph tomeus meg gbe bert peter alfred rosa bparker ( only e-mail address give ) f . gladney marty jacobsen elizabeth m . bergman dorine houston susan fagyal debra hardison several style manual be recommend . the latest edition of the mla , apa and chicago all make reference to electronic source . xaus li and nancy b . crane 's book electronic style be recommend by several people . the publisher ( ? ) allyn & bacon be also make a style guide available . three electronic guide be also recommend ; the faq file of the group " alt . usage . english " available from " misreal @ scripp . edu " , a file on the tesl - l mail list and a previous post to linguist list vol 6-210 mon 13 feb 1995 . i have a copy of this last source which i be will to forward to anyone interest ( note this message also explain how to get the tesl list ) . beside give me reference , many of those respond caution me to get the permission of my source before cite them . there be at least two reason for this ; first many people respond to query off the top of their head without double check their fact and second while will to respond to one query many people may not want to set themselve as a source to be consult by anyone do research on the subject in question . in most situation , i have come to the conclusion that personal e-mail should be cite as personal communication , which be enough to indicate that the information be not original to the author without make any promise that the source will act as a reference . ( co - incidentally this be the solution suggest by about half of my respondent ) . however a post to a list ( like this summary ) which be available to anyone and which can be access without contact the author directly should be cite accord to the style guide of your choice or in such a way that it can be easily find . heather anderson hmander @ indiana . edu
