Subject: aisb96 call for workshop proposal

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - aisb-96 : call for workshop proposals - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - call for workshop proposal : aisb-96 university of sussex , brighton , england april 1 - - 2 , 1996 society for the study of artificial intelligence and simulation of behaviour ( ssaisb ) workshop sery chair : dave cliff , university of sussex local organisation chair : alison white , university of sussex the aisb be the uk 's largest and foremost artificial intelligence society - - now in it 's 32nd year . the society have an international membership of nearly 900 draw from both academia and industry . membership be open to anyone with interest in artifical intelligence and the cognitive and compute science . the aisb committee invite proposal for workshop to be hold at the university of sussex campus , on april 1st and 2nd , 1996 . the aisb workshop series be hold in even year during the easter vacation . in odd year workshop be hold immediately before the biennial conference . the intention of hold a regular workshop series be to provide an administrative and organisational framework for workshop organiser , thus reduce the administrative burden for individual and free them to focus on the scientific programme . accommodation , food , and social event be organise for all workshop participant by the local organiser . proposal be invite for workshop relate to any aspect of artificial intelligence or the simulation of behaviour . proposal , from an individual or a pair of organiser , for workshop between 0 . 5 and 2 day long will be consider . workshop will probably address topic which be at the forefront of research , but perhap not yet sufficiently develop to warrant a full-scale conference . in addition to research workshop , a ' postgraduate workshop ' have become a successful regular event over recent year . this event focus on how to survive the process of study for a phd in ai / cognitive science , and have a hybrid workshop / tutorial nature . we welcome proposal , particularly from current phd survivor , to organise the 1996 postgraduate workshop at sussex . for further information on organise the postgraduate workshop , please see the aisb96 web page ( address below ) or contact dave cliff or alison white . proposal for tutorial will also be consider , and will be assess on individual merit : please contact dave cliff or alison white for further detail of submission of tutorial proposal . it be the general policy of aisb to only approve tutorial which look likely to be financially viable . submission : - - - - - - - - - - a workshop proposal should contain the follow information : 1 . workshop title 2 . a detail outline of the workshop . this should include the necessary background and the potential target audience for the workshop and a justify estimate of the number of possible attendee . please also state the length and prefer date ( s ) of the workshop . specify any equipment requirement , indicate whether the organiser would be expect to meet them . 3 . a brief resume of the organiser ( s ) . this should include : background in the research area , reference to publish work in the topic area and relevant experience , such as previous organisation or chair of workshop . 4 . administrative information . this should include : name , mail address , phone number , fax , and email address if available . in the case of multiple organiser , information for each organiser should be provide , but one organiser should be identify as the principal contact . 5 . a draft call for participation . this should serve the dual purpose of inform and attract potential participant . the organiser of accept workshop be responsible for issue a call for participation , review request to participate and schedule the workshop activity within the constraint set by the workshop organiser . they be also responsible for submit a collate set of papers for their workshop to the workshop sery chair . workshop participant will receive bind photocopy of the collate set of papers , with copyright retain by the author . individual workshop organiser may wish to approach publisher to discuss publication of workshop papers in journal or book form . dates : - - - - - intention to organise a workshop should be make know to the workshop sery chair ( dave cliff ) as soon as possible . proposal must be receive by october 1st 1995 . workshop organiser will be notify by october 15th 1995 . organiser should be prepare to send out call for workshop participation as soon as possible after this date . collate set of papers to be receive by march 15th 1996 . proposal should be send to : dave cliff aisb96 workshop sery chair school of cognitive and compute science university of sussex brighton bn1 9qh u . k . email : davec @ cog . susx . ac . uk phone : + 44 1273 678754 fax : + 44 1273 671320 electronic submission ( plain ascius text ) be highly prefer , but hard copy submission be also accept , in which case 5 copy should be submit . proposal should not exceed 2 side of a4 ( i . e . 120 line of text approx . ) . general enquiry should be address to : alison white aisb96 local organisation chair school of cognitive and compute science university of sussex brighton bn1 9qh u . k . email : alisonw @ cog . susx . ac . uk phone : + 44 1273 678448 fax : + 44 1273 671320 a copy of this call , with further detail for workshop organiser ( include a full schedule ) , be available on the www from : http : / / www . cog . susx . ac . uk / aisb / aisb96 / cfw . html a plain - ascii version of the web page be available vium anonymous ftp from : % ftp ftp . cog . susx . ac . uk login : anonymous password : [ your _ email @ your _ address ] ftp cd pub / aisb / aisb96 ftp get [ filename ] * ftp quit * file available at present be : readme call _ for _ proposal
