Subject: sum : english dialect sample source

these be the response to my query about find audio sample of dialect of english . thank for the suggestion and comment below ; i take the liberty of quote most of them in full . in addition to the item mention below , i manage to locate : ( 1 ) a 1971 bbc record entitle " english with a dialect " which contain 24 short sample of british english dialect and 8 more of " irish , scottish and welsh accent . " the record jacket say that the record be produce " to provide a tool of the actor 's craft , " and for use in classroom . i find it fascinate , and believe it will be extremely valuable to me . ( 2 ) a collection of cassette with accompany manual , entitle " acting with an accent , " by david a . stern . these be also aim at actor who need to portray non-native english speaker . however , i find most of them not to be useful as classroom material ; they stereotype the two or three most prominent pronunciation feature of the various speaker when speak english , rather than provide student with a real understand of dialect , nor even of phonological interference mechanism in second language learn . my other response and comment be interpolate in the quotation , within [ ] . apology for the length of this summary . loui b . hillman lbhndp @ rit . edu - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - i ' ve find quite a lot of tape that be available commercially as supplement ( buy separately ) to the follow book : j . c . well , accent of english . cambridge up 1992 . ( whole world ) a . hugh and p . trudgill , english accent and dialect . 2nd edition . arnold 1979 / 1987 . ( uk only ) d . freeborn , variety of english . macmillan . 1987 . ( uk and w . indy only ; some fascinate material for other aspect of socio as well as accent . ) i think they ' re all available just like book . they tend to cost about 7 pound sterl . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - the follow resource will guide you to free and commercially available recording of north american english dialect : donna christian , 1986 , american english speech recording : a guide to collection . washington , d . c . : center for apply linguistic . michael d . linn and marrit - hannele zuber , 1984 , the sound of english : a bibliography of language recording . urbana il , ncte . michael d . linn , 1993 , appendix : resource for research . in denni r . preston ( ed . ) , american dialect research , amsterdam : benjamin , pp . 433-50 . a few other specifics which may not be mention in the above ( and if they be i apologize ) : 1 ) longish recording from inland northern , brooklyn ny , eastern new england , south midland , phildelphium , and alabama be available on a record from ncte entitle ' american speak . ' there be an an accompany booklet ( by raven mcdavid and john murus ) with the same title ; it have the text for a read passage , transcription of free conversation , and list of feature . it be date 1967 and may be out of print , but it be worth a try at ncte . [ alouse horn ( horn @ jupiter . ac . oakland . edu ) also mention this record . i find a copy and i must warn you that this copy , at least , be in _ 78 _ rpm _ format ! ! no publication date . i plan to copy it - - as soon as i find suitable equipment . lh ] 2 ) there be an old record call ' our chang language ' jointly publish by ncte and mcgraw - hill . it contain fifteen or more read passage from all over the us and canada . if it be still available , it be well worth dig out ; it be the best selection of short sample i have hear . it be also by raven mcdavid and have good commentary on the record jacket . it have , as well , a lot of stuff on the history of english in general , but the dialect sample really cover the territory . ( the drawback be that they be old recording and do not illustrate some on-go sound change very dramatically , particualrly the northern city shift . ) [ i find this record ; in addition to the american dialect passage , it contain several interest passage compare british and american speech . it also contain reading from old english ( " beowulf " ) ; middle english ( chaucer ) ; and early modern english ( shakespeare ) . the narrator 's dialect be itself interest , by the way , as an example of the " radio announcer " dialect of the period . publish in 1965 ; 33rpm format . lh ] 3 ) there be some recording which accompany two book : timothy shopen and joseph william , 1980 , standard and dialect in english , cambridge ma : winthrop ; and diane bryen , cheryl hartman , and pearl tait , 1978 , variant english , columbus oh : charle merrill . both be rather more sociolinguistically than geographically orient . the christian , linn and zuber , and linn bibliography will give you the best coverage of what be available in american english dialect recording ( and , nicely , how to get them ) . more better : most be free . [ oh , yes ; free _ be _ the best price , be n't it ? lh ] - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - there be a cassette that go with trudgill and hannah 's international english : a guide to varieties of standard english which contain a passage in thirteen different dialect , ten of which be non - north american . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - what i have be use lately , for reason of my own , be tape of poetry reading ; the trick be to find poet who be good exemplar of various dialect . audio - forum and caedmon be the two biggest supplier , i think . a - f 's address be 96 broad street , guilford ct , 3359 ; i do n't know caedmon 's offhand . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - the ohio state language file publisher , advocate publish group of reynoldsburg , oh , use to have a set of tape illustrate a range of dialect . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - just an idea . . . . you may be able to get some more sample of international english dialect by record from short-wave broadcast .
