Subject: teach english in germany ?

the university of regensburg , germany , announce an unanticipate vacany for a position of lektor , to teach english for a period of up to five year . an informal job description follow . application should reach me by august 21 ; the job should be take up at the begin of our winter term , nov . 1 . candidate who react to a similar announcement earlier this year should state there continue interest but need not submit full application . do n't hesitate to ask me if there be any further question . edgar schneider edgar . schneider @ sprachlit . uni-regensburg . de lektor in the english department ( institut fuer anglistik und amerikanistik ) of the university of regensburg an informal job description i . job description in their capacity as native speaker of english and citizen of the english - speak country , lektor in the english department of the university of regensburg teach course in two specific area : practical language instruction ( i . e . english as a foreign language ) and landeskunde ( i . e . introductory course in british / american / canadian culture , history , geography etc . ) . practical language course be teach at various level ( introductory , intermediate , advance ) and include : translation ( german into english ; english into german be teach by german instructor ) ; composition ( essay - write and discussion at all level ) ; english grammar ( with a comparative view of english a nd german grammar ) ; vocabulary ; phonetic ( mostly language lab instruction ) ; general language course which combine many aspect of the course s mention above . also , lektor be responsible for devus sing and administer test in these area . landeskunde course be design to give the student a general outline of british / american / canadian culture , history , geography , economics etc . there be survey course for beginner and course on special topic for advance student ( e . g . ethnic problem , educational system , recent history , political institution , etc . ) . ii . require qualification prospective applicant for the position of lektor must be native speaker of english and fluent in german , and they must have live in an english - speak country for two year prior to employment . c andidate must have at least a master 's degree in english , linguistics , german , or possibly some relate field ; a ph . d . or abd status woul d be a plus . also , they should have some formal train in t each english as a foreign language ( tesol ) ; for applicant from great britain , the tefl exam be require . some teach experience , for example as graduate assistant , preferably in german or engl ish as a foreign language , or , a previous stay of a few month or more in a german - speak country would be helpful . as this be a non-tenure position , candidate should make clear that in the long r un they seek a professional career in their home country , for which a temporary stay in germany would be beneficial , however . iii . work condition lektor be give a two-year contract which may be renew for another three-year period ( but the employment period cannot be extend beyond those five year ) . the teach load be 16 hour per week ( 4 to 8 different course ) during the semester ( the winter semester last from november through february , the summer semester from may through july ) , and probably about one course per semester break ( fall and spring ) , depend on other activity . further duty include participation in the plan , administer , and correction of various exam , some student tutor , some participation in t he administrative business of the institute , and occasional service function as native speaker for other department member . thus , during the month of march and april and august through october , l ektor must be present at the university , unless they be on vacation ( roughly 5 to 6 week per year , depend on age and legal regulation ) or special leave of absence . job duty do not include re search work , although the job should leave some spare time for such activity . the salary be calculate accord to the bat iia scale of the german civil service . there be fringe benefit . salary and fringe benefit depend on age and family status . for those lektor employ during the whole calendar year there be a thirteenth monthly salary ( otherwise , the appropriate fraction be pay for each month of employment ) . altogether , the average salary of a lektor currently amount to roughly between 48 , 0 and 55 , 0 dm net per annum . the salary be pay in monthly instalment . please send application or request for further information to : prof . dr . edgar w . schneider , universit , t regensburg , institut fuer anglistik und amerikanistik , d-93040 regensburg , phone no . [ 011-49 - ] ( 0941 ) 943 3470 , fax no . [ 011-49 - ] ( 0941 ) 943 4992 , e-mail : edga r . schneider @ sprachlit . uni-regensburg - de . edgar . schneider @ sprachlit . uni-regensburg . de university of regensburg , 93040 regensburg , germany phone ( int . line ) - 49-941 - 9433470 fax ( int . line ) - 49-941 - 9434992
