Subject: summary : chomsky 's " single mutation "

a couple of week ago i post a query about an allege quotation from chomsky . the quote come from gordon hewe , an anthropologist and a specialist in language origin , in his 1977 paper ` language origin theory ' in duane rumbaugh 's book _ language learn by a chimpanzee _ , on page 43 . there hewe assert that chomsky have explicitly attribute the human language faculty to a single genetic mutation in one of our ancestor . the source be give as " chomsky ( 1967 ) " , but no such item appear in hewe 's bibliography , nor indeed any work by chomsky at all . i therefore ask if anybody could point to such a statement in chomsky 's work . i receive seven response , most of them from people who either know chomsky personally or who take a professional interest either in chomsky 's work or in language origin . no one be aware of any such statement by chomsky , either in print or elsewhere , and a couple of people flatly disbelieve that chomsky have ever say any such thing . i myself have track down and read all of chomsky 's 1967 publication which may be relevant , and i can find no such suggestion in any of them , though two of them do make pass remark on language origin . i have also skim through chomsky 's book _ cartesian linguistic _ ( 1966 ) , _ language and mind _ ( 1968 , 1972 ) and _ knowledge of language _ ( 1986 ) without find any such statement ( though i have n't read them carefully ) . it appear , then , that chomsky have make no such suggestion , and that hewe 's statement must result from some kind of error or misunderstand . i find this odd , though , since hewe be well know as a specialist in language origin and since the remark occur in the middle of a generally well-document survey of earlier suggestion on the origin and evolution of language . most peculiar . my thanks to keith mccormick , robert freidin , scott delancey , vivian cook , rich hilliard , massimo piattellus - palmarinus , and raf salkie for their helpful response . larry trask cogs university of sussex brighton bn1 9qh england larryt @ cog . susx . ac . uk
