Subject: sum : metathesis

back in may i post a query on both linguist and an-lang ( austronesian language and linguistic ) ask for reference on treatment of metathesis use recent phonological theory . i be mainly interest in synchronic metathesis of c / v type , which occur pervasively in dawan ( w . timor ) which i be do a bite of work on . this be a summary of response on both list , which come from : juliette blevin , bob blust , jim fox , beth hume , greg kinkley , john mccarthy , andy pawley , john stonham , mark taber , and aone van engelenhoven . it turn out that metathesis have come to play a fairly important role in recent discussion of morphological and phonological theory . also more and more example of metathesis as a synchronic phenomenon have be come to light in various language description . austronesian language have provoke considerable interest , with rotuman probably the best know ( e . g . besnier 1987 ) , letinese ( van engelenhoven ) and dawan ( steinhauer , tarno et al . ) become better know in the literature , and ( chuck and barabara grime p . c . ) a number of other language of eastern indonesium exhibit variety of metathesis wait in the wing for examination by theoretician ( e . g . christensen and christensen 1992 ; coward 1990 ; coward and coward to appear ; marshall 1991 ; steven 1990 ; taber and taber 1992 - reference provide by mark taber ) . metathesis be a relatively rare phenomenon in natural language . in a climate where theoretician be want more and more to let universal principle and constraint explain the output of grammar , it appear to contravene constraint that both phonologist and morphologist would like to impose on language . an important change suggest in autosegmental theory which be design to accommodate some crucial instance of metathesis without appeal to movement rule , be the segregation of c and v tier , apply to rotuman in besnier ( 1987 ) . since then move have be make to make constraint and their interplay the foundation of theory more directly , and the trend seem to be toward abandon such device as tier segregation , at least in optimality theory . in optimality theory , one of the constraint suggest be that segment should preserve their linear order ( linearity : mccarthy 1995 ) . obviously override in heavily metathesise language like dawan . in approach within optimality theory ( mccarthy , hume ) one principle can dominate another principle , and therefore override it . in c / v metathesise language , under certain condition a principle demand ( morpheme - or word - ) final close syllable dominate other which would achieve contrary effect , allow metathesis to occur [ apology for mangle complex argument in an attempt at one-line summary ] . another problem raise by metathesis in the realm of morphology be note by stonham ( 1994 : 141 - 2 ) : " it defy the use of concatenative account of morphological effect . . . it have be call upon as a key example of the need for process - base morphology in such work as anderson ( 1983 , 1992 ) , janda ( 1984 ) and zwicky ( 1988 ) " . stonham argue to the contrary that difficulty encounter by combinatorial morphology in handle metathesis do not show that the theory be inadequate or process like movement rule be need : rather the difficulty reflect the fact that metathesis do not occur as a grammatical marker . he reanalyse several instance of apparent grammatical metathesis as result from phonological process . this approach look promise , at least for dawan , where much of the metathesis look as if it could be ultimately prosodically motivate , although i can't prove that right now . although blevin ( 1994 ) be more about such thing as vowel length than metathesis directly , the approach , which emphasise look at metathesis not as an isolate phenomenon , but in the context of a full prosodic analysis , be admirable . such analysis would need to take into account discourse condition too , as note by mark taber for luang . reference anderson , stephen r . ( 1983 ) rule as ' morpheme ' in a theory of inflection . in d . rood ed . proceeding of the 1983 mid - america linguistic conference . 3-21 . boulder : u colorado . anderson , stephen r . ( 1992 ) a - morphous morphology . cambridge university press . besnier , niko ( 1987 ) an autosegmental approach to metathesis in rotuman . lingua 73 : 201-223 . blevin , juliette ( 1994 ) the bimoraic foot in rotuman phonology and morphology . oceanic linguistic . 33 . 2 : 491-516 . christensen , john and sylvium ( 1992 ) kisar phonology . in : phonological study in four language of maluku . ed . by donald a . burquest and wyn d . laidig : 33-65 . dalla : the summer institute of linguistic . coward , david f . ( 1990 ) an introduction to the grammar of selaru . m . a . thesis . arlington : university of texa at arlington . coward , david f . , and naomus coward . ( in press ) a phonological sketch of the selaru language . to appear in pacific linguistic . hume , elizabeth ( 1995 ) a prosodic theory of metathesis . ms . ohio state university . hume , elizabeth ( in press ) beyond linear order : prosodic constraint and c / v metathesis . proceeding of flsm6 . indiana linguistic club . janda , richard ( 1984 ) why morphological metathesis rule be rare : on the possibility of historical explanation in linguistics . bls . 10 : 87-103 . mccarthy , john ( 1989 ) linear order in phonological theory . linguistic inquiry 20 . 1 : 71-100 . mccarthy , john ( 1995 ) extension of faithfulness : rotuman revisit . ms . marshall , craig ( 1991 ) a phonology of forda . m . a . thesis . arlington : university of texa at arlington . mettler , tonus and heidus ( ? ) phonological sketch of yamdena . work paper in indonesian language & culture 8 29 - 79 steinhauer , hein ( 1991 ) morphemic metathesis in dawanese ( timor ) . paper to 6th international conference on austronesian linguistic . steinhauer , hein ( 1994 ) [ ? title ] on metathesis in dawanese verb , in : ger . p . reesink ed . topic in descriptive austronesian linguistic , semaian 11 , leiden : dep . of language & culture of s . e . asium & oceanium : 130-158 . steven , lee anthony . 1990 . the phonology of roma , an austronesian language of eastern indonesium . m . a . thesis . arlington : university of texa at arlington . stonham , john ( 1994 ) combinatorial morphology . amsterdam : jon benjamin . taber , mark , and kathy taber . 1992-ms . a phonological sketch of the luang language . unpublish manuscript . tarno , wakidus , s . j . mboeik , p . sawardo , s . kushyaryanto ( 1989 ) tata bahasa dawan . proyek penelitan bahasa dan sastra indonesium dan derah nusa tenggara timur pusat pembinaan dan pengembangan bahasa departeman pendidikan dan kebudayaan . van der hulst , harry & aone van engelenhoven ( 1995 ) metathesis effect in tutukeian - letinese , in harry van der hulst & jeroen van de weijer ed . leiden in last , proceeding ( or paper ? ) of hilp 1 . the hague : holland academic graphic . zwicky , arnold ( 1988 ) morphological rule , operation and operation type . escol . 4 : 318-334 .
