Subject: new book : study in logic , language and information

studies in logic , language and information * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * kanazawa , makoto ( chiba university , japan ) ; learnable classes of categorial grammars ; isbn 1-57586 - 096 - 1 ( paper ) , 1-57586 - 097 - x ( cloth ) , 184 pp . csli publication 1998 : http : / / csli-www . stanford . edu / publication / email : pub @ roslin . stanford . edu . distribute by cambridge university press . this book investigate learnability of various class of classical categorial grammar within the gold paradigm of identification in the limit from positive datum . two type of learn , learn from structure and learn from flat string , be consider . the class of k-value grammar for k = 1 , 2 , 3 . . . , be show to be learnable both from structure and from string , while the class of least-value grammar and the class of least-cardinality grammar be show to be learnable from structure . in prove these learnable result , crucial use be make of a theorem on the concept know as finite elasticity . the learn algorithm use in this work build on buszkowskus and penn 's algorithm for find categorial grammar from input consist of functor-argument structure . ginzburg , jonathan ( hebrew university of jerusalem ) , khasidashvilus , zurab ( ntt basic research lab , japan ) , vogel , carl ( university of dublin ) , le ' vy , jean - jacque ( ecole polytechnique ) , vallduvus ' , enric ( universitat pompeu fabra ) ; the tbilisi symposium on logic language and computation : selected papers ; isbn : 1-57586 - 098 - 8 ( paper ) , 1-57586 - 099 - 6 ( cloth ) , 376 pp . csli publication 1998 : http : / / csli-www . stanford . edu / publication / email : pub @ roslin . stanford . edu . distribute by cambridge university press . this volume bring together papers from linguist , logician and computer scientist from thirteen country ( armenium , denmark , france , georgium , germany , israel , italy , japan , poland , spain , sweden , uk and usa ) . this collection have two main aim : first to serve as a catalyst for new interdisciplinary development in language , logic and computation ; and second , to introduce new idea from the expand european academic community . span a wide range of discipline , the papers include in this volume cover such topic as formal semantics of natural language , dynamic semantics , channel theory , formal syntax of natural language , formal language theory , corpus-base method in computational linguistics , computational semantics , syntactic and semantic aspect of lambda-calculus , non-classical logic , and a fundamental problem in predicate logic . the papers that appear in this volume have be select from those originally present at the first tbilisus symposium on language , logic and computation that take place in gudaurus , the republic of georgium , in october 1995 .
