Subject: _ rightward movement _ review - - i

[ editor 's note : this be part one of a two part review . the second part appear in the next issue of linguist ] beerman , dorothee , david leblanc , & henk van riemsdijk , ed . ( 1997 ) rightward movement ( linguistik aktuell 17 ) amsterdam : benjamin . 406 pp . this be a proceedings volume collect together papers present in oct . 1995 at the tilburg conference on rightward movement . the editor mention two or three papers that be present at the conference but be not include in this proceedings volume . i say ` two or three ' because , although they mention three author ( kayne , koike , and truckenbrodt ) , koike actually have a paper in this volume ; i do not know why his name be include in the list of author whose papers be not include . at the back of the book , a complete list of address ( snail - and e-mail ) of the contributor be include . the editor ' preface ( with van riemsdijk name as principal author ) provide a very nice summary of the relevant issue and their background in the literature . special note be take of repercussion of recent work in minimalist program ( e . g . , kayne 1994 ) for the whole notion of ` rightward movement ' ( hereafter rm ) . this reviewer would note in particular that , although it be commonly suppose that , as state in the preface , ` in a minimalist approach , movement be exclusively trigger by check . . . . given this new line of think , rightward movement simply cannot be trigger , hence it cannot exist ' , some of the contributor - - e . g . , alphonce & davi , bure & hartmann - - demonstrate that it be in fact possible to develop hypothesis within the minimalist framework that would enable trigger of such movement . of the 14 papers in the collection , it be hardly surprise that 7 deal with ` extraposition ' ( define in various way ) , and four of those be concern primarily with one aspect or other of extraposition in german . i will discuss these extraposition papers as a group before consider the other . josef bayer 's paper ` cp - extraposition as argument shift ' ( pp . 37-58 ) begin with a very nice , neat summary of problem with classical extraposition account ( vium rm ) for postverbal cps in v - final language ( focus particularly on bengalus , hindus , and german ) , note that these problem disappear under a kayne - type analysis . however , he go on to note definite empirical problem with a kayne - type analysis . he then propose an analysis accord to which a complement be right-adjoin to the maximal projection of its govern head ( in this case vp ) , leave behind a trace as sole sister of that head ( v ) . if that trace be then delete and the tree be prune , the v end up with a complement to its right which it can theta-mark . alternatively , bayer suggest , at least some ` extrapose ' cps may be base-generate to the right , co-index with a ( dummy / deletable ) pronominal , by inheritance from which they be license . bayer note that this would help account for the fact that in some ov language ( e . g . , bengalus ) , certain class of cps be * alway * ` extrapose ' . if we assume that directionality be relevant to selection , then the result vp constitute a barrier to a cp on the ` non-canonical ' side of the head , which would account for the scope effect bayer note earlier as be problematic for both the traditional account and the kayne - type account . in ` rightward scramble ' ( pp . 186-214 ) , anoop mahajan argue on the basis of various relation sensitive to c-command that postverbal nominal argument in hindus be merely constituent leave behind while everything else have move leftward . this analysis supersede the rm analysis he propose in an unpublish paper ten year ago and be deliberately consistent with an analysis base on kayne 's linear correspondence axiom ( hereafter lca ) . this reviewer note that many of mahajan 's argument necessarily presuppose certain possibly dubious tacit assumption , e . g . , that rm must necessarily involve adjunction specifically to ip ( contrary to the approach propose in , e . g . , muller 's , wiltschko 's , and rochemont & culicover 's papers ) . for instance , the string in mahajan 's ( 33 ) , which he mark ( ? ? ? ) could be generate - - and its unacceptability account for - - by right-adjunction of the direct object to vp rather than ip . nowhere do mahajan actually address what in this reviewer 's opinion be the most basic issue with question like this : is there or be there not any evidence of a * gap * correspond to the postverbal material ? michael s . rochemont & peter w . culicover in ` derive dependent right adjunct in english ' ( pp . 279-300 ) discuss various construction in english , all of which may be include under a rather broadly-define concept of ` extraposition ' . distinguish between the extraposition of relative clause on the one hand and heavy - np shift and presentational - there insertion on the other , they argue that relative - clause extraposition be best treat as ( 1 ) base - generate and ( 2 ) right-adjunction to the govern category ( vp , ip , or cp ) of the antecedent to the extrapose rc . they make an effort to conjure up plausible analysis of rc - extraposition involve kayne - style leftward-movement but note that none of the possibility they consider be quite satisfactory . even the ` best ' option , involve movement of both the rc and its antecedent to distinct spec position , fail to provide any motivation for either the posit movement or the highly ramify structure such an analysis require . expand on earlier work of their own ( rochemont & culicover 1990 ) , rochemont & culicover argue that heavy - np shift and presentational - there insertion be best treat as instance of movement to a right - adjoin a ' - position . they demonstrate that , quite apart from the problem discuss in rochemont & culicover 1990 , any attempt to analyze such construction by means of exclusively leftward movement involve the extremely unattractive movement of what be not , in fact , by any stretch of the imagination a recognizable constituent . in the end , they acknowledge that there be some empirical problem share by both the rightward-movement account they apparently prefer and the ` movement to high specifier ' account that would be more consistent with a kayne - type approach , but that the latter raise some provoke theoretical problem that be absent from their rightward-movement account . they conclude by say that ` the question whether rightward movement exist or not . . . be not an empirical one . ' daniel bure & katharina hartmann 's paper ` the kayne mutiny ' ( pp . 59-80 ) present an excellent argument for the empirical bankruptcy of the kayne antisymmetry hypothesis . make crucial use of reconstruction at lf and of bind - theoretic statement refer to ( undelet ) trace , b&h 's argument be build upon the prediction that , if extraposition be a consequence of rm , it ought to be possible for a proper bind relation * not * to exist between an np and a cp later in the sentence - - if the np happen to be in a hierarchically lower position , from which neither it nor any of its daughter be able to c-command the cp ( such a lack of bind relation be a priorus impossible in a kayne analysis , accord to which any np to the leave of a cp must ipso facto c-command it ) . they then demonstrate that such bind failure be in fact attest , and be indeed not all that difficult to come up with in a language like german . ( at the end of section 2 , they acknowledge some confuse result with regard to coreference option , conclude that these ` require further investigation ' . ) they further demonstrate ( section 3 ) that the kayne analysis actually do serious violence to many standard assumption about movement , include ( similarly to rochemont & culicover ) issue of what qualify as a ( movable ) constituent and under what circumstance a constituent may be ` strand ' . ( it 's from this surreptitiously iconoclastic character of kayne 's hypothesis that they get their clever title . ) and they demonstrate that verb - topicalization ought to be impossible in a kayne analysis , although of course it 's quite common in german . in order to account for the complication with regard to island - constraint violation , etc . that have present problem for earlier version of a rm - analysis of extraposition in german and similar language , b&h propose ( p . 72 ) a generalization accord to which finite clause may never be govern by either v or i . this provide an actual motivation for cp - extraposition , since presumably in its ds position a complement clause be govern by the matrix verb , and in order to escape that government must be right-adjoin to some higher phrasal node , presumably ip . this be in direct conflict with bayer 's analysis , accord to which the extrapose cp end up be govern by the matrix verb as a result of the deletion of its own trace and tree-prun ; which analysis be to be prefer ought to be an empirical problem . hubert haider 's paper ` extraposition ' ( 115-152 ) argue on the basis of the extraposition of comparative and the c-command relation essential thereto in english and german ( mostly german ) that extrapose constituent remain embed in their ds mother . haider further argue that extrapose relative and argument clause must also be vp - internal , since although they be n't subject to the same c-command relation themselve , they alway come * before * extrapose comparative which be . broaden his scope in section 2 to other example of german extraposition , haider demonstrate that they can't result from movement and must therefore be base-generate . but , on the basis of scope , c-command , and absence of island-effect , he also argue against an analysis in term of base-generate adjunction . haider agree with kayne in assume exclusive leftward movement ; however , he allow for either head-initial or head-final base structure , and invoke head movement while kayne invoke phrasal movement . haider present several prediction that kayne 's lca theory would have for a language such as german , which he then demonstrate be all falsify by the actual datum : ( 1 ) phrase to the leave of the verb should be in spec - position , and should therefore be island ( 2 ) vp - adverbial and predicate should end up in postverbal position , since there 's nothing to trigger their movement ( 3 ) vp - topicalization ought to involve the movement of a functional projection contain a trace of the finite verb . in ` extraposition as remnant movement ' ( p . 215-246 ) , gereon muller offer a very neat analysis of extraposition in german as right - adjunction to a variety of phrasal node , include cp as well as vp or ip , thereby account for various otherwise problematic detail with regard to island effect in both leftward - and rightward-move constituent . the paper include a very interest and useful comparative discussion of the adequacy of a variety of different propose constraint for exclude unacceptable string while allow acceptable one . martina wiltschko 's paper , ` extraposition , identification and precedence ' ( pp . 358-396 ) , a summary of her 1995 wien dissertation , discuss extraposition in german , focus on the relation of * identification * between the ` identifyee ' , the ( pro ) nominal element ( np or dp ) in the canonical position within the clause and the ` identifier ' , the extrapose constituent . both identifyee and identifier provide linguistically necessary information : the identifyee occupy a canonical ( theta - ) position , therefore satisfy syntactic requirement , while the identifier provide necessary semantic content to licence the identifyee 's definiteness . given that the identifyee * introduce * a discourse referent , it must ( on the basis of heim 's ( 1980 ) novelty condition ) precede the identifier . wiltschko also argue for a locality constraint on identification , accord to which the identifier must c-command the identifyee , without any intervene xp ; thus , the identifier must be right-adjoin to the minimal maximal projection dominate the identifyee . in wiltschko 's view , these two constraint together account for the fact that identifier be alway extrapose . she acknowledge that this analysis apply only to * restrictive relative clause * , not to other type of modifier . attractive as the paper be in many way , it suffer somewhat from the necessary exclusion of many support argument , for which the interest reader be refer to the full-length dissertation . two of the papers be concern primarily with parse theory and the development of adequate parse technology . both of these papers , come from different point of view , argue for a data-driven , bottom-up parse strategy as against a hypothesis-driven top-down strategy . in ` on movement and one - pass no backtrack parse ' ( pp . 301-330 ) , chri sijtsma recognize that ` natural ' ( i . e . , single-pass , no backtrack , faithful to derivation ) bottom-up parser be less restrictive than natural top-down parser , which of course from the point of view of strict generative theory be a point against them , but assume that there be enough variation among actual language that a bottom-up parse strategy be to be prefer . this reviewer find such a conclusion attractive , but worry that sijtsma have provide so little in the way of empirical demonstration to back it up ; indeed , for such a mathematically-orient paper ( at least relative to this reviewer 's experience ) , there be extremely little in the way of solid argument present ; most of the time , sijtsma merely assert that the proof of any give theorem be either self-evident or readily derivable ; in a few case , he refer to demonstration elsewhere in the literature . another issue both of these papers consider very seriously , without , however , either of them come up with a very satisfactory solution , be the proper size of the look - ahead window for an adequate parser . sijtsma assert ( pp . 305 - 6 ) that any grammar with a look-ahead window greater than 1 be functionally equivalent to a grammar that look ahead just one symbol , but then go on to say , ` in practice we still need . . . parser that look ahead more than one symbol . ' in subsequent discussion it become clear that he be unclear just how large a look - ahead window be empirically adequate . likewise , alphonce & davi , while currently work with a look-ahead window of ` at most two chunk ' ( p . 25 ) , be clearly dissatisfy with this characterization . it be clear that this issue need more think , if not further research , devote to it . a fundamental claim of the paper by carl alphonce & henry davi , ` motivate non - directional movement ' ( pp . 7-36 ) , be that linear precedence constraint , indeed lp phenomenon of any kind , have no relevance for syntax at all ; essentially , they claim that , from the point of view of all syntactic level include lf , constituent be organize hierarchically in term of dominance relation but not linearly in term of precedence relation . in alphonce & davi ' view , all precedence relation be impose at pf , make them essentially matter of performance rather than competence . in the opinion of this reviewer , this be a very interest and possibly attractive idea . unfortunately , contrary to the promise contain in the abstract , this claim be not so much argue for as assume within the paper . nor be it make clear - - to this reviewer , anyway - - that it be explicitly argue for anywhere else , unlike the skip argument behind wiltschko 's paper and the citation give in sijtsma 's paper . alphonce & davi merely demonstrate that it be possible to develop an analytic approach - - more precisely , a parse program - - that have no need for any kind of explicit syntactic constraint , at any level ( whether ug or language-particular ) , make reference to linear order . at the end of their abstract , alphonce & davi claim that they be motivate by a conviction that ` it be a priorus desirable to eliminate as much redundancy as possible between different component of the system . . . . if some phenomenon have [ sic ] an independent process explanation we hold that syntactic theory should not have to offer any explanation for it . ' this approach be all very well in a purely formal mathematical system , but it be fairly common knowledge that redundancy be in fact a sine qua non of biological system ( cf . e . g . gould 1993 ) and of natural-linguistic system as well ( cf . e . g . hock 1986 , ch . 9 & 12 ; this fact be also acknowledge by chri sijtsma in his paper , p . 314 ) . the mere fact that one can develop a parse program that have no need to appeal to syntactic lp constraint , therefore , in no way demonstrate that such constraint have no place in human natural-language competence . much of sijtsma 's paper be devote to develop point ( regard , e . g . , the proper type ( s ) and subcategorization frame ( s ) of pps ) that be clearly relevant to his primary concern , which be develop an adequate automate parse grammar , but be tangential to the focus of the collection . in argue , contrary to kayne , that ug do not stipulate one universal tree-structure for all language , sijtsma get a fair amount of mileage out of replace the assumption that node-label be atomic with the assumption that they be merely shorthand for feature-bundle . though he do n't mention this , this replacement have actually be implicit in x - bar theory ever since the early 70 's . with regard to directionality of movement , sijtsma argue that rightward movement must be allow by ug , with this caveat : in derive ss from ds , leftward movement be unrestrict but rightward movement of modifier ( which do n't leave obvious gap ) should not exceed the look-ahead buffer ; on the other hand , in derive lf from ss rightward movement be unrestrict but leftward [ editor 's note : this review be continue in the next issue of linguist ] - steven schaufele , ph . d . , asst . prof . of linguistic , english department soochow university , waishuanghsus campus , taipeus 11102 , taiwan , roc ( 886 ) ( 2 ) 2881-9471 ext . 6504 fcosw5 @ mbm1 . scu . edu . tw http : / / www . prairienet . org / ~ fcosw / homepage . html * * * o syntagma linguarum libereminus humanarum ! * * * * * * nihil vestri privarus nisus obicibus potesti ! * * *
