Subject: _ rightward movement _ review - - ii

[ editor 's note : the follow be the second part of a review of beerman et al . _ righward movement _ . the first part be to be find in the previous issue of linguist . ] most of frank drijkoningen 's paper ` morphological strength : np position in french ' ( pp . 81-114 ) be devote to a clever account of the relative order of subject and verb , and part thereof , in french , with especially focus on inversion construction , demonstrate that the datum can be describe in a manner consistent with kayne 's antisymmetry theory - - provide one adopt a certain amount of occam - stretch multiplication of functional head with resultant multiple spec - position as ` home ' for subject . drijkoningen argue fairly convincingly for the follow hierarchical order of functional head in french : [ c [ t [ agr ( s ) [ agr ( o ) [ agr ( a ) [ vp ] ] ] ] ] ] , identify participial agreement not with agr ( o ) but with agr ( a ) , the checking-site for predicate - adjective agreement . he also offer a hypothesis with regard to a trigger for french stylistic inversion ( in which the subject np follow the verbal complex ) . hbe assumption be that ( in both french and english ) spec - head agr feature in infl be ` strong ' , while head - feature in infl be ` strong ' in french but ` weak ' in english . however , overt saturation of spec - head agr feature in cp ( e . g . , by front an overt wh-expression ) significantly reduce the strength of spec - head agr feature in ip , obviate the need for the subject np to rise to spec - agr ( s ) for check . the paper be characterize by heavy reliance on ` float / strand _ tous _ ' , i . e . , a quantifier separate superficially from the np it modify . this reviewer find little or no evidence of any awareness of the possibility of q - movement independent of movement of the modify np ; many of the star string could actually be derive , assume a kayne approach , if q be allow to move on its own . there be no sign of any argument that such movement be impossible ; perhap it can be rule out by lack of motivation . this paper be a thick , but rather strong argument for underlie svo and exclusively leftward - movement in french . of course , few linguist would contest that french be svo , and what evidence there may be for rightward - movement in this language have alway be a best peripheral ( pun intend ) . given the strong argument for rm and head-finality in other language present by bayer and bure & hartmann , this paper seem like a lot of sound and fury . erik hoekstra 's paper , ` analyse linear asymmetry in the verb cluster of dutch and frisian and their dialect ' ( pp . 153-170 ) , present an analysis in term of kayne 's lca hypothesis of the syntax of the complex verb cluster so especially characteristic of these language . in the course of his discussion , it gradually become clear that , on the basis of the order of element within these cluster , he distinguish between dutch and frisian as respectively ` head-initial ' and ` head-final ' . it be clear to this reviewer why these label be appropriate specifically with regard to the internal syntax of verb cluster , but describe dutch as ` head-initial ' be likely to be a surprise to many people who think they know otherwise . in discuss the feasibility , or lack thereof , of insert non - verbal material ( include particle ) between member of a verb cluster , hoekstra not only demonstrate that this follow very reasonably from the lca - account he be propose but claim ( p . 158 ) that ` the rigidity of head-final cluster [ i . e . , their intolerance of such insertion ] . . . be a mystery for any approach not incorporate asymmetry . ' in fact , it make perfect sense if we assume an underlie head-final order and the derivation of alternative order by the rm of verbal projection . this reviewer be not necessarily suggest that this be a * better * approach than hoekstra 's lca - account , but it be certainly quite feasible , contrary to his apparent belief . in the last section , hoekstra spend a fair amount of time on a very interest discussion of the infinitivum - pro - participio ( ipp ) effect , whereby in some germanic language ( e . g . , dutch ) a ( perfective ) participle take an infinitive verb as its complement must itself surface in the form of an infinitive . the primary question at issue for hoekstra be : what be the formal grammatical nature of the ipp effect ? and why be it characteristic only of some ( germanic ) language and not of other ? hoekstra argue that the ipp effect only occur in language in which the perfective participle be mark by a prefix , e . g . the germanic prefix ` ge - ' or reflex thereof , and that this prefix occupy the spec position of the verb to which it be morphologically attach . since under these circumstance that spec position be already occupy , it be impossible for the infinitive complement to move into that position as it must , the derivation crash ; the loophole exploit by dutch and other ipp language ( this be , in fact , the traditional analysis in germanic scholarship ) be the substitution of an ` alternative ' form of the participle which be morphophonologically identical to the infinitive ( and therefore , in hoekstra 's view , have no obstructionist prefix ) . the fact that frisian do not exhibit ipp effect , accord to this analysis , be directly relate to the fact that in frisian the perfective participle be mark only by a suffix . this reviewer admit to not be familiar with the scholarly literature on the subject of ipp , but note some curiosity as to how hoekstra 's claim ( p . 159 ) that ` the ipp effect be systematically absent in head - final germanic dialect ' can be square with the fact that german , which be clearly head-final in the sense that hoekstra use the term , typically mark perfective participle with a prefix and , indeed , exhibit ipp . the last few page of the paper be devote to a very nice little discussion of the recent evolution of ipp in a couple of frisian dialect , which hoekstra argue be due in both case to remarkably heavy contact with dutch . in this reviewer 's opinion , this section represent a very desirable conjunction of scholarship and concern in sociolinguistic and linguistic evolution on the one hand and formal grammatical theory on the other . in his paper ` movement in japanese relative clause ' ( pp . 171-185 ) , satoshus stanley koike argue that all relative clause in japanese , include the ` externally-head ' one whose ` head ' be ( apparently ) ` extract ' to their right , can be account for in term of a kayne lca - type analysis allow only spec - head - comp base structure and leftward movement . note certain problem result from adopt kayne 's analysis , koike make clear that they be almost certainly obviate by his ( * very interest * ) proposal of a * discourse-base * motivation for the leftward movement his adoption of kayne 's lca approach force him to assume . koike 's hypothesis that the movement of ip in these japanese case be essentially stylistic movement , i . e . , motivate by pragmatic or discourse consideration rather than purely syntactic one , at least imply that it be pf - movement which would ( 1 ) account for the fact that , in order for his analysis to make the right prediction , * have * to follow the movement of the semantic ` head ' np - - the latter be a proper ` syntactic ' movement - ( 2 ) be invisible as far as bind theory be concern , bind theory be relevant primarily at lf and totally irrelevant at pf , and ( 3 ) not be subject to relativize minimality either . in their paper ` rightward wh - movement in american sign language ' ( pp . 247-278 ) , carol neidle , judy kegl , benjamin bahan , debra aaron , & dawn maclaughlin argue that americal sign language ( asl ) exhibit a head-final cp with a right-marginal spec as landing-site for wh - movement . they note ( p . 267 ) that this proposal ` be partially consistent with kayne 's claim about universal order ' , in that it place spec and complement on opposite side of the head ; however , their proposal differ from kayne 's universal antisymmetry approach in posit a head-final structure for cp while assume head-initial structure for all its complement-daughter . neidle et al . base much of their anti - lca argument on the fact that certain syntactic feature ( include polarity , + / - wh , etc . ) be in asl express by ` non-manual marker ' ( e . g . , facial expression ) which frequently spread over certain portion of the clause they be associate with , and the very plausible notion that those portion can be define as the c-command domain of the functional head associate with these feature . thus , the possibility , or lack thereof , of such spread in asl be take as symptomatic of the presence or absence of c-command relation ( p . 250 ) . it be on the basis of such spread that they argue that the landing-site for wh - movement in asl , which be clearly to the right of the clause , nevertheless c-command the latter , and they demonstrate that these c-command fact be incompatible with a kayne - type analysis . they briefly entertain analysis more consistent with kayne 's lca - hypothesis , involve the raise of c and ip into higher position ( which , they note , must nevertheless be below position , e . g . the landing-site of topicalization , know to be above cp in asl ) , but point out that there be ( 1 ) no evidence as to the functional nature of such position , ( 2 ) no independent motivation for their existence , and ( 3 ) no evident motivation for the movement they be discuss . in their paper ` language type and generative grammar : a review of some consequence of the univeral vo hypothesis ' ( pp . 331-357 ) , caterina donatus & alessandra tomasellus address the repercussion of kayne 's antisymmetry hypothesis for constituent-order typological study . they demonstrate very neatly and elegantly the manifold empirical problem kayne 's approach have with language represent a variety of type , include ( 1 ) ov language with v2 ( german , dutch ) , ( 2 ) svo language without pro-drop ( english , french ) , ( 3 ) svo language with pro-drop ( italian ) , and ( 4 ) vso language ( irish ) . repeatedly , they demonstrate that more traditional analysis provide more accurate result than analysis assume kayne 's antisymmetry hypothesis . it should be note that donatus & tomasellus be throughout address specifically the relative order of verb and nominal in ordinary , garden-variety clause ; the detail of extrapose structure such as those discuss by bayer , bure & hartmann , and haider be not address in this paper . while as already note half the papers in this collection , understandably , discuss ` extraposition ' , it be unfortunate that there be no papers focus ( pun intend ) on adverbal focus-movement , a serious alternative candidate for a rm analysis ( for which cf . schaufele 1990 , 1998 ) . neidle et al . 's paper relate to focus in an indirect way , in that it be commonly assume that wh-element be a priorus focus and that therefore their s - structure location , especially if there be anything remarkable about it , should be consider as at least a possible landing-site for focus-movement . as a sort of appendix , koike offer a short discussion of rightward focus-movement in turkish , in which he suggest that the same kind of discourse-analysis motivation he propose for the movement leftward of ` background ' relative clause ( away from their semantic ` head ' ) in japanese can also motivate the movement leftward of * non-focuss * argument in turkish , leave the focus subject strand in immediately pre-verbal position ( at least in term of superficial order ) . this reviewer note , however , that koike make reference to a single turkish example , a very simple clause involve only three constituent , an object np , a subject np , and a verb , and doubt very much that such an account as he propose would be able to make much sense out of the much more complex example of subject-focuss discuss in schaufele 1990 , 1998 . i have complaint about muller 's and hoekstra 's papers at an expository level , in that both assume on the part of the reader a high degree of familiarity with the language be discuss . muller provide no english translation for any of his german example sentence , or for that matter of the one hindus example sentence . while this reviewer have little trouble read and interpret example sentence in these language , such facility cannot be expect of most reader of this collection . likewise , hoekstra offer no translation of any of his example sentence , and in many case this reviewer , who be not unfamiliar with a wide variety of germanic language , be quite unable to make any sense out of them . furthermore , it be frequently not make clear which language the example in question be mean to represent ; since the paper as a whole depend crucially on distinction between dutch and frisian , this be a source of serious obscurity . and only on p . 158 , the 6th page of a fairly short paper , do hoekstra finally tell us that the gloss ` mp ' stand for ` modal particle ' , after have use this abbreviation freely in several earlier example . this abbreviation may be familiar to specialist in netherlandic , but it be n't to a lot of other interest reader . in koike 's paper the inclusion of japanese word in the midst of the english - language text without any typographical highlight by either quote or italics , especially in a book with many typographical error , prove a little unsettle ; this be also a problem in muller 's paper , where it be particularly confuse in the one section that discuss extraposition in english . the book as a whole be plague with typographical error . there be two example ( 59 ) in drijkoningen 's paper . haider 's ( 58a ) be star , but be in fact an ok string , and it 's obvious from context that haider regards it as ok . in bure & hartmann 's paper , there be ex . ( 21a ) and ( 22a ) , but no ( 21b ) or ( 22b ) ; diagram ( 24 ) be nowhere refer to in the text ( though it 's pretty obvious what it refer to ) . [ bayer in press ] be refer to several time in bayer 's paper , but it do n't appear anywhere in the reference ; perhap it 's represent by bayer 1996 ? the statement of wiltschko 's locality constraint be misprint on p . 360 in such a way as to be nonsensical . in koike 's paper the alignment of the gloss in ( 20a ) be impossible to make any sense out of , and i have to study ( 10 ) a while before i realize that , although it say literally ` [ dp ip d [ cp np / qp [ c [ ip . . . ' , those biliteral ` dp ' , ` cp ' , and ` ip ' be in some instance mean to be label on the immediately precede bracket , not left-daughter of the constituent enclose within say bracket . mahajan 's paper be particularly plague with typographical error ; to mention merely the most egregious example i find , in ( 54 ) the entire direct object np be miss from the hindus string , render this example 's relevance to the discussion be completely opaque . as already note here and there , many of the substantive flaw in this collection be due primarily or entirely to lack of space in which to present relevant argument . fulfil the preface 's promise of open-mindedness , the book bring together papers from several different viewpoint , both support and undermine kayne 's antisymmetry hypothesis . while many of the contributor obviously hold rather strongly to whatever side of this controversy they espouse , many of them be to be commend for the skill and seriousness they nevertheless give to the necessary task of consider possible alternative analysis that would support the other side . while many of the papers focus on language , and construction within those language , that have already be much discuss in the generative literature , there be some admirable exception ; i would especially mention the papers by bayer , hoekstra , and neidle et al . in this regard , also the typological interest behind the paper by donatus & tomasellus although they restrict themselve primarily to western european language . anyone concern about understand the debate arise out of kayne 's antisymmetry hypothesis and the grounds both for take it seriously and for reject it cannot afford to ignore this collection . reference . bayer , josef . ( 1996 ) directionality and logical form : on the scope of focus particle and wh - in - situ . dordrecht : kluwer . gould , stephen j . ( 1993 ) ` an earful of jaw ' , eight little piggy , pp . 95-108 . new york : norton . heim , i . ( 1980 ) the semantic of definite and indefinite noun phrase . university of massachusett ph . d . dissertation . hock , han henrich . ( 1986 ) principle of historical linguistic . berlin : mouton de gruyter . kayne , richard . ( 1994 ) the antisymmetry of syntax . cambridge , ma : mit press . rochemont , michael s . & peter w . culicover . ( 1990 ) english focus construction and the theory of grammar . cambridge : cambridge university press . schaufele , steven . ( 1990 ) ` a " focus " position for subject within the vedic vp ' south asian language roundtable xii , university of californium at berkeley , 10 june 1990 . _ _ _ _ _ _ . ( 1998 ) ` rightward ho ! the typology of structural focus and complement - head order ; a critical discussion of antisymmetry , rightward movement , and the syntax / pragmatic interface ' glow - hyderabad , 22 jan . 1998 . steven schaufele 's research interest during the past dozen year have include , most significantly , the typology of constituent-order freedom and the repercussion thereof for formal syntactic theory , as well as the critical comparison of various approach to syntactic theory . he be currently teach linguistics in the english department of soochow university in taipeus , taiwan . - steven schaufele , ph . d . , asst . prof . of linguistic , english department soochow university , waishuanghsus campus , taipeus 11102 , taiwan , roc ( 886 ) ( 2 ) 2881-9471 ext . 6504 fcosw5 @ mbm1 . scu . edu . tw http : / / www . prairienet . org / ~ fcosw / homepage . html
