Subject: international lexical functional grammar conf

call for papers lfg99 1999 international lexical functional grammar conference 19 july - 21 july 1999 the university of manchester submission receipt deadline : 15 february 1999 url : http : / / ling . ln . man . ac . uk / html / lfg / enquiry : lfg99 @ man . ac . uk the university of manchester be please to invite you to participate in lfg99 which will take place from monday , july 19 till wednesday , july 21 1999 at the university of manchester , uk . the conference welcome work both within the formal architecture of lexical - functional grammar and typological , formal , and computational work within the 's pirit of lfg ' , as a lexicalist approach to language employ a parallel , constraint-base framework . the conference aim to promote interaction and collaboration among researcher interest in nonderivational approach to grammar , where grammar be see as the interaction of constraint from multiple dimension of linguistic substance , include category information , grammatical relation , and semantic information . further information about the syntactic theory lfg can be obtain from : http : / / clwww . essex . ac . uk / lfg / submissions the conference will involve 30 - minute talk , poster / system presentation , and workshop . talk and poster presentation will focus on result from complete as well as ongo research , with an emphasis on novel approach , method , idea , and perspective , whether descriptive , theoretical , formal or computational . we particularly welcome papers and suggestion for workshop on a give language area . presentation should describe original , unpublish work . abstract and papers must be receive by february 15 , 1999 , and should be submit to the program committee chair at the address give below . for further information or offer of organisational help , contact the local organiser at the address below . poster / system presentations a schedule session for poster and the demonstration of system be plan as part of the conference , with the poster also available for view at other time throughout the conferece . workshops workshop be a small group of talk ( 2 - 4 ) on a coherent topic that can be expect to generate oppose view and discussion with the broader audience . participant to workshop be usually invite . workshop papers should be distribute in advance among participant and participant should refer to each other approach . at this point in time , we welcome suggestion for workshop from potential organiser or people with certain interest . suggestion for workshop should be send to the local organizer at lfg99 @ man . ac . uk . topic that have be mention for potential workshop include : - phenomenon within a give language area ( such as amerindian ) - field work and linguistic theory - event conceptualization and lexical semantics - construction / construction grammar and lfg actual workshop topic and participant will be announce later . timetable deadline for workshop proposal : 30 november 1998 deadline for receipt of submission : 15 february 1999 acceptance send out : 31 march 1999 conference : 19 july - 21 july 1999 submission specifications people may submit either abstract or full length papers for referee . the advantage of full paper submission be that it allow better assessment of your work and that ( at least for some people ) accept referee full papers count as a higher status publication . the program chair may decide that certain submission be better as poster presentation than as read papers . submitter may also indicate if they wish a submission to be consider as a poster / system presentation . full length papers . paper should be no more than 15 page , include figure and reference , in 11 or 12pt type , on a4 / us letter paper . the print text area must not exceed 165x230mm ( 6 . 5x9 inch ) , and should be centre horizontally and vertically on the page . omit name and affiliation , and obvious self reference from the version for review . paper should include a roughly 100-200 word abstract at the begin . abstract . abstract should be one a4 page in 10pt or larger type and include a title . omit name and affiliation , and obvious self reference . a second page may be use for datum , c - / f - and relate structure , and reference . paper / abstract may be submit by email or by regular mail ( or by both means as a safety measure ) . email submission be prefer . regular mail include : - five copy of the abstract / paper . - a card or cover sheet with the paper title , name ( s ) of the author ( s ) , affiliation , address , phone / fax number , e-mail address , and whether the author ( s ) be student . email . include or attach your paper as either a plain ascii text , html , or postscript file . include the paper title , name ( s ) of the author ( s ) , address , phone / fax number , email address , and whether the author ( s ) be student in the body of your email message . all papers / abstract will be review by at least two people . papers will appear in the proceedings which will be publish online by csli publication . select papers may also appear in a print volume publish by csli publication . organisers and their contact addresses send paper / abstract / poster submission and inquiry about submission to : program committee chair : tracy king < thking @ parc . xerox . com > miriam butt < miriam . butt @ uni-konstanz . de > mail : tracy holloway king information science and technology laboratory xerox parc 3333 coyote hill road palo alto ca 94304 usa contact the conference organiser at : email : lfg99 @ man . ac . uk mail : kerstus borjar or nigel vincent department of linguistic university of manchester manchester m13 9pl uk associated events given the great success of the pre-conference bushwalk organize as part of lfg98 , we be plan an organise walk in the peak district for the weekend precede the conference . detail and information on how to sign up for it will be provide in a subsequent call for papers . on the last even of the conference there will be a conference dinner in a stately home on the outskirts of manchester . location the conference will be hold at hulme hall , a hall of residence near the main university building . different type of b&b accommodation will be available in hulme hall , where all lecture , book display etc will also take place . detail of this and registration form will be provide at a later stage .
