Subject: conference on language teacher education

announcement and call for papers the center for advanced research on language acquisition at the university of minnesota announces an international conference on language teacher education may 20 - 23 , 1999 radisson-metrodome hotel minneapolis , minnesota , usa this conference will be of interest to anyone involve in the preparation and ongo professional development of language teacher of all kind : practitioner and researcher in the various sub-field of language teacher education . the conference will address the education of teacher of all language , at all instructional and institutional level , and in all the many national and international context in which this take place , include : esl / efl ; foreign / modern / world language teach ; bilingual education ; immersion education ; indigenous and minority language ; and the teach of less commonly teach language . the conference aim to bring together research , theory , and best practice from all these context , and to initiate and sustain meaningful professional dialogue across language , level , and setting . speaker and panelist will include : * glorium ladson - billing ( keynote address ) * jack richard ( honorary conference chair ) * dick allwright * elizabeth bernhardt * pat chaput * donald freeman * eugene garcium * kri gutierrez * nancy hornberger * karen e . johnson * denise mckeon * mimus met * june phillip the conference will focus on four principal theme : i . the knowledge base of language teacher education ii . social , cultural and political context of language teacher education iii . the process of language teacher education iv . language teacher education policy for further information about the conference , and to be add to our mail list , contact : international conference on language teacher education , carla , 333 appleby hall , university of minnesota , mpl mn 55455 . phone : 612-626 - 8600 . fax : 612-624 - 7514 . e - mail : < carlum @ tc . umn . edu > . web : < http : / / carlum . acad . umn . edu / teacher-e . html > . more program information and registration form will be include in a later mail in fall 1998 . the call for paper follow below . please forward this announcement and call to others who may be interested ! call for papers the international conference on language teacher education welcome proposal for papers on all aspect of the education and professional development of language teacher . paper may report on data-base research , theoretical and conceptual analysis , or best practice in language teacher education . the conference will focus on four broad theme . proposal be more likely to be accept if they address one of these theme : theme i : the knowledge base of language teacher education a central issue in language teacher education be the question of what constitute the knowledge base of language teach and how it relate to the process and content of teacher education . issue in this theme may include : * teacher ' knowledge and belief * teacher learn in formal and informal context * teacher ' way of know * teacher socialization * professionalism * the nature of disciplinary knowledge . theme ii : social , cultural , and political contexts of language teacher education language teacher education take place in multiple context and with diverse population , where language , culture and identity be intricately bind together . paper in this theme may include critical and analytical perspective on : * institution , community , and discourse within which teacher education practice be situate * power , status , and authority and language teacher education * diversity and equity in language teacher education , include issue of race , class , gender , sexual orientation , and language * the socially situate nature of language and learn theme iii : processes of language teacher education the process of language teacher education refer to the way in which the knowledge base be conceptualize and operationalize . these be construct through the contribution and interpretation that all participant bring to the process . process may include : * program design * curriculum * pedagogical method * organization of instruction * practica * material * observation / supervision * professional development for teacher at all experience level theme iv : policy in language teacher education action take by formal and informal decision-make body have an impact on language teacher education . these policy influence the direction of teacher education even though they may or may not involve the participation of teacher educator . they can be formulate at the institutional , local , state , or national level , and may include : * standard * legislative mandate * teacher education program requirement * recruitment and retention * advocacy by language teacher organization presentation will be 30 minute in length . in line with the dialogical spirit of the conference , each session of two or three papers will include presentation concern with different context and type of language teacher education . submit proposal in the follow form : i . 8 copy of a one-page , single-space abstract with the title of the presentation and the theme it address indicate in the top left-hand corner ( your name and institution should not appear on these copy ) . ius . 1 additional copy of the abstract which include your name and institution in the top right-hand corner . iius . a 50 - word summary of your presentation to be publish in the conference program . iv . a copy of the form attach below . proposal be to be send to : dr . bill johnston , chair of the program committee , international conference on language teacher education , ilasll , university of minnesota , klaeber court 192 , 320 16th st . se , minneapoli , mn 55455 . phone : 612-626 - 2269 . e - mail : < billj @ tc . umn . edu > . submission should be postmark no later than october 31 , 1998 ( please note the extend deadline ) . submission from outside the continental us only may be send by fax to the follow number : 612-627 - 1875 . applicant will be notify of the program committee 's decision no later than december 31 , 1998 . select papers from the conference will be publish in a collection of conference proceedings . proposal form a . information about presentation presenter 's name : title of presentation : theme : b . presenter information : institution : address : phone number work : home : fax : e - mail :
