Subject: review of ostertag

ostertag , gary ( ed ) ( 1998 ) definite description : a reader , cambridge , ma : mit press , xius + 411pp , $ 30 . 0 . the collection begin with a substantive introductory essay by the editor . this be follow by fifteen papers , the majority of which be originally publish in journal or in other anthology , although some be originally chapter or part of chapter of book . the collection end with a useful bibliography , with reading arrange by topic . the first of the fifteen papers in ostertag 's anthology be russell 's 1905 paper ' on denote ' , and the remain papers be arrange in more or less chronological order , end with a 1995 paper of stephen schiffer 's title ' description , indexical , and belief report : some dilemma ( but not the one you expect ) ' . the one deviation from the chronological sequence be stephen neale 's 1993 paper ' grammatical form , logical form , and incomplete symbol ' , which be place in the sequence just after several papers author or co-author by russell . presumably the reason for place neale 's paper out of chronological order be that it illuminate some of the more technical background notion whose grasp be essential to an understand of the debate represent in the ensue papers . neale discuss the distinction between grammatical and logical form , raise question about the appropriate way to represent ordinary language quantifier in semantic theory , discuss russell 's claim that definite description be incomplete symbol , and discuss the implication of this for an attempt to give a compositional semantics for sentence contain description . the other papers in the collection be the classic one by strawson , donnellan and kripke , as well as more recently influential papers by such author as peacocke , wettstein , soame and neale . ostertag regret that he could n't have include more papers in his volume . he regret for instance not include some of the work by marga reimer or by nathan salmon . ostertag compensate for this gap in a small way by spend some time in his introductory essay on reimer 's argument against treat ' the f ' as a quantifier , and on salmon 's argument against wettstein 's anti - russellian view . ostertag 's introductory chapter break the mold for this sort of essay , in the sense that it do n't contain a summary of the central argument of the collect papers . possibly ostertag feel that since the majority of the papers in his collection be classic in the field , or at least frequently refer to by other in the field , it be unnecessary to encapsulate their central argument in this way . presumably most instructor use this as a textbook in a philosophy of language course will be very familiar with the argument contain in these papers . instead , ostertag 's essay present a ( by his own admission partial ) view of some of the twist and turn the debate have take . ostertag begin with a brief historical account of russell 's reason for move away from the extreme realist view which , under the influence of meinong , he have earlier accept , to the position defend in ' on denote ' . ostertag then lay out the treatment that russell give to definite description in principium mathematica , note some of the contortion that russell have to go through to represent scope difference in his notation . ostertag end this section by explain the method of represent natural language quantifier ( the method of restrict quantification ) that be favor by contemporary russellian , such as neale . this be follow by an interest section in which ostertag argue that the contemporary significance of russell 's work be rather different from the significance it have when russell first publish ' on denote ' , partly due to the fact that russell 's treatment of description as device of quantification have be so readily incorporate into contemporary grammatical theory . ostertag turn next to a discussion of the referential / attributive distinction . ostertag 's conclusion be that referential use of description be adequately account for by a gricean strategy . that be , in case in which a description be use referentially , we must distinguish what be mean from what be say . the referential understand be retrieve vium gricean mechanism as an implicature from what be say . ostertag do n't explicitly discuss some of the neo - gricean and relevance theoretical alternative that have appear recently in the literature that challenge this gricean solution . however , ostertag 's footnote do point reader to some of these alternative account . ostertag conclude with a discussion of the problem of incomplete description ( e . g . description such as ' the table be cover with book ' , which strawson first draw attention to ) , and with a discussion of various challenge by marga reimer and other to russell 's assimilation of description to quantifier . ostertag seem more pessimistic that russellian can deal adequately with these problem , and conclude his discussion with the claim that once we accept the context-sensitivity of description , which it seem we must , then " we be no longer in possession of an account of how the mean of the quantifier phrase " the f " be determine by the meaning of its constituent . " ( p . 28 ) . overall , ostertag 's essay be very interest . however , there be one very small print error , which lead to some difficulty in follow the thread of ostertag 's argument . on p . 24 the reference should be not to the sentence number ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , but to the sentence number ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) . in his preface , ostertag remark that it be somewhat surprise that no free stand collection of essay on description have yet appear . issue have to do with definite description form one of the core topic in the philosophy of language and all the major textbook in the philosophy of language contain a section devote to these issue . free stand collection of essay on other topic central to the philosophy of language have appear over the year . for instance , yourgrau ( 1990 ) and salmon & soame ( 1988 ) . so there do seem to be a need for a collection such as the present one , which could be useful for an upper level undergraduate or graduate seminar devote to the topic of description . the only philosophy of language textbook which come close to have as much coverage of this topic be ludlow ( 1997 ) , which contain seven essay under the head of definite and indefinite description . the topic of indefinite description be not address in ostertag 's collection , which be one of the disappointment about this volume , and be relate to one of the major shortcoming of this volume . all the papers in ostertag 's collection be by philosopher . the classic philosophical debate have tend to focus on a narrow range of issue , with the allege distinction between referential and attributive use of definite description be the dominant one . linguist who have work on the topic of description generally be interest in a much broader set of issue . some of the best current work by philosopher on description ( such as that by stephen neale ) be cross-fertilize by the work of linguist . hence it would have be good to include work by linguist , not only to open up the philosophical discussion to a wider range of issue , but also to guard against the chance that student will come away with the impression that work on the topic by other professional be of only marginal relevance to the philosophical debate . there be important recent work by linguist on the topic of the referential / attributive distinction ; on the comparison between definite and indefinite description ; on the so-cal generic , specific and predicative use of description ; on the claim ( find in work as early as strawson 's classic response to russell ) that the definite / indefinite distinction be relate to the give / new distinction for information in a conversational context ; and on the semantics / pragmatic distinction as it apply to description . some representative author be : irene heim ( 1989 ) , ruth kempson , ( 1986 ) and villy rouchota , ( 1992 ) and ( 1994 ) . in addition , there be more technical work in linguistics which explore the extent to which definiteness be a semantic property of expression , and hence the extent to which it be possible to offer a linguistically universal characterization of ( in ) definiteness . such work be represent in a recent collection of papers edit by eric reuland and alouse ter meulen . see reuland & ter meulen ( 1987 ) . peter ludlow , in his preface to the philosophy of language textbook mention above , remark that " the philosophy of language , or at least a core part of it , have mature to the point where it be now be spin off into linguistic theory . " ludlow , ( 1997 ) p . xiius . ludlow take this to mean that certain core problem in philosophy of language be be " naturalize " vium their incorporation into linguistics , and he use this claim to justify the inclusion of the work of linguist in his collection , alongside the classic of the philosophy of language . i be not sure that i would go as far as ludlow in claim that core part of the philosophy of language be now a part of linguistics . but give that natural language , as well as the speaker of such language , be object of study for the cognitive science , it make sense for philosopher of language to pay attention to what other cognitive scientist be say about such thing . this means pay attention to linguistic research , but it also means pay attention to work on language by psychologist , anthropologist , computer scientist and other . to give just one example of where such cross-fertilization may occur : developmental psychologist have long be interest in how it be that child master the distinction between definite and indefinite refer expression . see for instance karmiloff - smith ( 1979 ) and emslie & stevenson ( 1981 ) . chart the development of child 's semantic and pragmatic skill could potentially help clarify issue have to do with the correct semantic representation of ( in ) definite , as well as help in the resolution of question concern the boundary between the semantic and the pragmatic . this say , it should be stress that as a text for use in a mainstream philosophy of language class , whose principle aim be to introduce student to the debate about definite description as it have unfold over the last 90 year , this volume be unsurpass . the editor have clearly give a lot of think to pick papers which be representative of this mainstream debate . it would be unreasonable to demand that all the tributary , as well as the new offshoot , to this debate be represent in a single , manageably compact volume . perhap the editor and / or his publisher will consider in the future bring out a companion volume in which papers represent this wider debate be bring together ? bibliography : emslie , h . & stevenson , r . ( 1981 ) ' pre - school child 's use of the article in definite and indefinite refer expression ' , journal of child language , 8 : 313-328 . heim , i . ( 1989 ) the semantic of definite and indefinite noun phrase , new york , garland press . karmiloff - smith , a . ( 1979 ) a functional approach to child language , cambridge : cambridge university press . kempson , r . ( 1986 ) ' definite nps and context - dependence : a unify theory of anaphora ' , in travi ( ed ) mean and interpretation , oxford : blackwell , 209-239 . ludlow , p . ( ed ) ( 1997 ) reading in the philosophy of language , cambridge , ma : mit press . reuland , e . & ter meulen , a . ( 1987 ) the representation of ( in ) definiteness , cambridge , ma : mit press . rouchota , v . ( 1992 ) ' on the referential / attributive distinction ' , lingua , 87 : 137-167 . rouchota , v . ( 1994 ) ' on indefinite description ' journal of linguistic , 30 : 441-475 . salmon , n . & soame , s . ( ed ) ( 1988 ) proposition and attitude , oxford : oxford university press . yourgrau , p . ( ed ) ( 1990 ) demonstrative , oxford : oxford university press . anne bezuidenhout be an associate professor of philosophy and a core member of linguistic at the university of south carolina , columbium , sc . she be interest in the pragmatic aspect of language and communication , and have attempt to apply the insight of relevance theory to traditional debate in the philosophy of language , such as the debate about referential and attributive use of description , and the debate about the correct semantics for propositional attitude ascription . she be also currently work with cooper cutt , department of psychology , illinoi state university on an experimental investigation of the pragmatic process involve in utterance interpretation .
