Subject: k . polgardus , vowel harmony

vowel harmony . an account in term of governement and optimality by krisztina polgardus vowel harmony deal with some theoretical problem concern the phenomenon of vowel harmony , in a framework combine insight from government phonology , optimality theory and lexical phonology . the study introduce and motivate the general framework and examine three issue . the first concern the typology of vowel harmony system and how an element-base feature theory , comprise of the three element i , a and u and supplement by the property of headedness , can account for all the different type of harmony . the second concern the domain of harmony and the question of how to handle disharmonicity in the propose model . the third involve the so-cal neutral vowel , i . e . those vowel in a system that do not have a harmonic counterpart . it be claim that the behaviour of neutral vowel can be predict from their segmental make-up and from particular property of the vowel system involve . polgrdus argue that the theory of government phonology ( a principles-and - parameter approach ) need to be supplement by constraint rank , because certain type of phenomenon cannot be account for otherwise . since rank be show to be necessary , language variation can now be exclusively express by this device , and the notion of param - eter can be abandon . polgrdus also argue that a non-derivational version of the strict cycle condition also need to be incorporate into the theory to account for so-cal derive environment effect ( of which disharmonicity be show to be an example ) . 1998 . xius + 200 pp . isbn 90-5569 - 38 - 5 . paperback . lot interna - tional sery 3 . hil / leiden university dissertation . price for individual order directly from the publisher : nlg 36 , 90 , excl . vat and p&p . holland academic graphic , the hague < http : / / www . hag . nl > rint sybesma holland academic graphic po box 53292 2505 ag the hague the netherland fax : + 31 70 448 127
