Subject: book : uralic

memoire de la societe finno - ougrienne vol . 230 : etelaviron murteen sanaston alkuper . itamerensuomalaista etymologiaa [ the origin of vocabulary in the south estonian dialect . finnic etymology ] by eino koponen . ( isbn 952-5150 - 18 - 6 ) 296 p . eino koponen 's ph . d . thesis provide an etymological inventory of the vocabulary characteristic of the extremely interest but relatively little-study south estonian dialect , in order to shed light on finnic historical dialectology . at the same time think be give to basic issue of finnic etymology and word formation , especially the appearance of new indigenous ( basic ) word stem . lexica societati fenno - ugrica vol . xxvi . a morphological dictionary of tundra nenet . compile by tapanus salminen . ( publication of the databank for endanger finno - ugrian language 3 . ) ( isbn 951-9403 - 99 - x ) . 544 p . tundra nenet , with more than 25 , 0 speaker in northernmost russium and western siberium , be the greatest and probably best-known language in the samoy branch of the uralic language family . this dictionary contain approximately 19 , 0 word select from the exist major tundra nenet dictionary . it include 1 ) a reverse word list with inflectional code and derivational pattern , 2 ) an index of root , where derivational pattern be arrange follow their base , and 3 ) an alphabetic index . the dictionary complete the author 's monograph on tundra nenet inflection ( appear in the series " memoire de la societe finno - ougrienne " , vol . 227 , in 1997 ) . lexica societati fenno - ugrica vol . xxiii . h . paasonen mordwinisch wrterbuch . mordovskij slovar ' h . paasonena . zusammengest . von kaino heikkil . bearb . u . hrsg . von marttus kahlum . vol . 1 - 5 : 1990-1998 . mordvin , with two standard language , erzya and moksha , be speak in western russium by ca . 750 0 people , and form an interest link between finnic ( finnish , estonian and their closest relative ) and the other uralic language of russium proper . the dictionary of mordvin , base on the great and extremely important material collect by the finnish linguist heikkus paasonen and his mordvin helper between 1889 and 1912 , have now be publish by marttus kahlum , in collaboration with mordvin and german colleague . the dictionary consist of four volumes , with german and russian translation for every headword . the fifth volume be a russian index ; a german index will appear in the future . for complete backlist see the society 's homepage at http : / / www . helsinkus . fus / jarj / sus / e - mail order to the bookstore " tiedekirja " , tiedekirja @ pp . kolumbus . fus
