Subject: acl ' 99 theme final cfp

final call for theme proposals acl-99 conference : the 37th annual meet of the association for computational linguistic university of maryland june 22 - - 27 1999 the association for computational linguistic would like to encourage the submission of papers on substantial , original , and unpublish research on all aspect of computational linguistics . a particular aim for the 1999 conference be a broaden of both the thematic coverage and geographical origin of submission ; to this end , we be experiment with a new format . some proportion of the conference will be give over to special session , somewhat like a special issue of a journal , organise around theme propose by member of the nlp community . our aim be to incorporate some of the intensity and excitement of the traditional post-conference workshop , without replace those workshop - - - we expect , as have become traditional , that there will also be a set of post-conference workshop that will remain separate from the main meet . this call invite proposal for thematic session in accordance with the consideration below ; a final call for paper will be send out in early november . what is a thematic session ? we be solicit proposal for theme that will provide 4 - - 8 high quality papers , typically form one or two session in the main conference . proposer of accept theme , who will become the chair of those session , will have similar responsibility to those of workshop organiser in term of arrange review and the delivery of camera ready copy ; however , the papers will be schedule as part of the main session and will be publish as part of the main conference proceedings . in term of subject area coverage , we expect thematic session will be closer to workshop topic area in focus . format of theme proposals please specify the follow : - - chair detail : name , address , email , telephone number , fax - - title - - summary : at most one page describe the propose subject area , cite evidence that there be sufficient interest in the area to generate enough high quality submission to populate up to a half-day 's worth of presentation . - - propose review committee : each paper submit should be review by at least three people . as part of your proposal , you should suggest a potential review committee of around 12 people who will be ask to serve on the committee if the proposal be accept . your list should demonstrate the spread of interest in the area in the community , encourage both international participation and the participation of a broad range of researcher , include both senior member of the community and graduate student . theme proposal should be submit to the email address provide below . informal enquiry as to what may work as a theme can also be direct to this address in advance of the submission date . possible theme may be topic like : nlp and data mine ; word segmentation in asian language ; reconcile functional and formal approach to syntax ; approach to concept to speech . we provide these example only as indication of the variety of topic area that will be consider . important dates this call issue : september 14 , 1998 theme submission deadline : october 12 , 1998 notification of select theme : october 26 , 1998 call for papers : early november 1998 paper submission deadline : january 25 , 1999 notification of acceptance : march 22 , 1999 camera ready papers due : may 3 , 1999 general submission questions chair for the acl-99 program be ken church and robert dale . all query regard the program should be send to acl99 @ mrus . mq . edu . au ; this forward to both author . submission format theme proposal should be of approximately two page in length , ideally submit in ascius by email to acl99 @ mrus . mq . edu . au with the subject : " acl99 theme proposal " . more complicate format such as standalone latex ( not require additional style file ) , postscript , and word will be accept if they print on the first try . hardcopy proposal should be fax or mail to * both * of the chair , clearly label " acl99 theme proposal " . proposal should be receive by 5pm gmt on october 12th 1998 . ken church ( co - chair ) robert dale ( chair ) at&t lab - research microsoft research institute 180 park ave , office d235 school of mpce po box 971 macquarie university florham park , nj 07932-0971 , usa sydney nsw 2109 , australium kwc @ research . att . com robert . dale @ mq . edu . au tel : + 1 973-360 - 8620 tel : + 61 2 9850 6331 fax : + 1 973-360 - 8077 fax : + 61 2 9850 9529
