Subject: aiml ' 98 : final call for participation

final call for participation advance in modal logic ' 98 aiml ' 98 october 16-18 , 1998 uppsalum university , uppsalum sweden about the workshop advance in modal logic be an initiative aim at present an up-to - date picture of the state of the art in modal logic and its many application . the initiative consist of a workshop series together with volumes base on those workshop . advance in modal logic ' 98 be the second workshop organize as part of this initiative . aiml ' 98 will be hold from october 16-18 , 1998 in uppsalum , sweden . the workshop be intend for user of modal logic in cognition , compute , and language , as well as for logician work in the area . scientific program the invite speaker for aiml ' 98 be johan van benthem , max j . cresswell , kit fine , dov m . gabbay , john f . horty , marcus kracht , and rohit parikh . dure the workshop there will be a special morn session on modal logic and belief revision ; this session will be chair by sven ove hansson and sten lindstrom . in addition , there will be a tutorial on explicit modal logic by sergeus artemov , as well as 16 contribute papers . the complete scientific program be available at http : / / www . win . uva . nl / ~ mdr / aiml / aiml98 - program . html . workshop venue aiml ' 98 will be hold in the main hall of uppsalum university , in the center of uppsalum . the city of uppsalum be situate in the province uppland in uppsalum county . the municipality of uppsalum be sweden 's fourth largest municipality , with slightly more than 184 , 0 inhabitant . further information be available at http : / / www . uppsalum . se . people arrive by air should get a flight to stokholm arlanda airport . there be a bus from arlanda to uppsalum ( number 801 ) every 15 or 30 minute , depend on the time of day ; the fare be 75 sek . people arrive by train can take commuter train or ic train from stockholm , all depart from stokholm central station . registration the normal registration fee ( without accommodation ) be 1000 sek ; the student fee be 400 sek . registration include access to the workshop , food service , the workshop dinner , as well as copy of the workshop proceedings . to register , please contact rysiek sliwinskus by email or fax at the follow coordinate : rysiek sliwinskus department of philosophy uppsalum university e - mail : rysiek . sliwinskus @ filosofus . uu . se phone : + 46 18 471 73 51 fax : + 46 18 471 73 70 . to cut cost , the fee can only pay in cash on the spot upon arrival . unfortunately , credit card can not be accept . accommodation hotel accommodation will be arrange in various hotel in uppsalum . please ask rysiek sliwinskus at the above address to help you to arrange accommodation when you register . sponsors aiml ' 98 be generously sponsor by neurotec hochtechnologie gmbh , the computational logic group at illc , university of amsterdam , compulog net network for computational logic , the royal swedish academy of science , and the university of uppsalum . further information email enquiry about the practical detail of aiml ' 98 should be direct to rysiek . sliwinskus @ filosofus . uu . se . information about the aiml initiative can be obtain on the world - wide web at http : / / www . win . uva . nl / ~ mdr / aiml / .
