Subject: book : corpus linguistic : an introduction to

an introduction to corpus linguistics graeme kennedy , professor of apply linguistic at victorium university of wellington . pbk 0 582 23154 x hbk 0 582 23153 1 328 page 1998 study in language and linguistic sery longman - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - this book provide a comprehensive introduction and guide to corpus linguistic . all aspect of the field be explore , from the various type of electronic corpus that be available to instruction on how to design and compile a corpus . graeme kennedy survey the development of corpus for use in linguistic research , look back to the pre-electronic age as well as to the massive growth of computer corpus in the electronic age . the study focus primarily on corpus-base description of english : lexis , morphology , syntax and variation . it include a wide-range overview of the publish research of corpus linguist to illustrate the result and potential of distributional analysis of english . the section on corpus analysis describe the methodology and procedure that be generally employ include lemmatization , tag , parse and the use of important search and retrieval software to produce word-list , concordance and other analysis . the final section of the book discuss way in which the corpus-base analysis of language may contribute to linguistic theory , the description of language , computational linguistics and language teach . an introduction to corpus linguistic " will appeal to all involve in the study of language , from english language teacher and student of linguistic to those already involve in research in this fast-grow field . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - further information on the book publish in this series , and the table of contents for this title can be view at the longman linguistic on-line catalogue at : http : / / www . awl-he . com / linguistics for a complete list of our world-wide office , please click below : http : / / www . awl-he . com / office
