Subject: language and culture

call for papers s a l s a the symposium about language and society - austin be please to announce its seventh annual meet to be hold april 9-11 , 1999 at the university of texa at austin . we encourage the submission of abstract on research that address the relationship of language to culture and society . desire framework include but be not limit to : linguistic anthropology sociolinguistics ethnography of communication speech play , verbal art , and poetics political economy of language 1999 keynote speakers jill brody louisiana state university charle goodwin university of californium , lo angele marjorie harness goodwin university of californium , lo angele elizabeth keat university of texa at austin select papers deliver at the conference will be publish as a special edition of the texa linguistic forum . speaker will be allow 20 minute for presentation and 10 minute for discussion . paper will be select base on the evaluation of an anonymous write abstract which may not exceed one page ( use 10 pt . font or larger ) . please submit : 1 ) six ( 6 ) copy of the abstract , on 81 / 2 x 11 paper , to the address below . 2 ) a 3x5 card with the follow information : a ) the title of the paper b ) author 's name c ) author 's affiliation d ) address , phone number , and email address at which the author wish to be notify . 3 ) a short 100 word abstract , on a 3 . 5 " disk ( mac or pc ) , for publication in the conference program . text must be word-process in text-only ascii or microsoft word ( mac or pc ) . please label your disk clearly . see the salsa web page for more detail : http : \ \ www . dlum . utexa . edu \ dept \ anthro \ project \ salsa deadline for receipt of abstract be january 15 , 1999 . leat submission will not be accept , and we cannot accept papers which be to be publish elsewhere . notification of acceptance or rejection will be send in mid - february , 1999 . registration fee will be approximately $ 20 for student and $ 35 for non-student . paper must be receive by early june , 1999 to be include in the publish proceedings . send all correspondence to : salsa department of linguistic university of texa at austin austin , tx 78712 email : salsa @ ccwf . cc . utexa . edu anastasium cole amanda doran nisha merchant goss salsa vii co - chair salsa @ ccwf . cc . utexa . edu
