Subject: tei report , call for proposal

the future of the tei report and final invitation for proposal 1 background information as report on this list in early september , the text encode initiative be consider option for its future organization and fund , and be actively explore the possibility of a consortium or cooperative organization to support the maintenance and extension of the tei guideline . on 3 - 4 october , the tei executive committee meet with representative of the tei 's sponsor organization ( ach , acl , and allc ) and of some prospective host institution . the purpose of this note be - to report to the community on the step be take toward the goal of a new organization for the tei , - to outline for all concern the current schedule of event lead toward a final decision , and - to reiterate the invitation for institution interest in host a tei organization to contact the tei as soon as possible , in order to ensure that any proposal can receive full consideration . 2 issue list in the course of the meet , we elaborate a list of issue which must be resolve in the course of any decision on the tei 's future organization and structure ; any proposal for organize and host a tei structure be expect to address these question . - intellectual property rights : the tei 's sponsor organization be take step to clarify the current status of rights in the tei ; any new structure need to make clear how those rights be to be manage in the future . there be a strong conviction that in any new organizational structure the result of the tei 's work must remain publicly accessible , as they be now . - the governance and legal status of the propose organization must be describe . it be essential that the legal structure be one that allow full participation by institution and individual from all country ; in particular , institution in the european and north american country where tei activity and use be currently most common should be on an equal foot . - proposal need to specify a plausible business plan and indicate the level of fee and other fund need to make the propose organization self-sustain . the executive committee and sponsor organization have no particular requirement on this topic ( beyond the hope that membership fee not be prohibitively expensive ) ; prospective host must take into account the cultural difference between europe and america as regards fee for membership in consortium and cooperative organization . - geography : there be a strong wish that the international flavor of the tei be maintain with regard to the membership , governance , and provision of service by a tei organization . - the tei have develop a structure and a set of procedure for organize and carry out the intellectual work of maintain the guideline ; proposal for the tei 's future need to specify in how far these procedure will be retain , and how they will be change . - proposal for a tei organization should contain provisions describe what be to happen if the organization be unsuccessful ; such a fall-back plan should provide among other thing for the reversion of the tei to the original sponsor organization . - the future role of the current sponsor organization in the future guidance of the tei must be spell out . there be , in principle , a broad range of possibility here ; in practice , the current sponsor organization wish to have some active role in the governance of the tei , at least for some initial period - - both in order to ensure continuity in the project and to demonstrate their continue support for the tei and its goal . - the scope of the propose organization or cooperative must also be clear - - where 's cope ' may be describe in term of discipline , or of type of activity , or of the common base or focus of activity . the sponsor organization recognize that standard of many kind may be relevant to the activity of their member , and they expect to continue collaborate with each other on standard of mutual concern . whatever institutional and organizational framework be set up for the tei must be in a position to collaborate flexibly with future initiative of the sponsor organization ( as well as continue the tei 's involvement in work on relate standard like xml ) . 3 timetable the timetable for the decision about the future organization of the tei be as follow : 31 october 1998 : initial proposal should be receive from prospective host . november 1998 : a review committee consist of the tei executive committee and additional representative from the sponsor organization will review and discuss the proposal and ask proposer for explanation and clarification of matter of detail in the proposal . 30 november 1998 : cut-off for the discussion process , and deadline for submission of revise proposal , with full institutional commitment . early to mid - december 1998 : a short list of proposal will be select , and proposer will be notify and invite to give final presentation at a meet in january 1999 . mid - january 1999 : meet of review committee to receive final presentation , follow which the sponsor organization will decide the future arrangement for the tei . 31 january 1999 : public announcement of the decision make by the sponsor organization will be make by the end of january . 4 invitation institution interest in propose to organize and host a tei organization ( or to make any other proposal for the future of the tei ) should contact the tei secretariat as soon as possible at the address below for further information , since initial proposal be expect at the end of october , and final proposal , include full institutional commitment , be due 30 november . member of the sponsor organization , or other user of the tei , who would like to express their view on any of the issue outline above , or to suggest other issue that should be consider , be invite to comment on tei - l , or to contact the appropriate body within their association , or to write directly to the tei executive committee in care of the address below . - c . m . sperberg - mcqueen , university of illinoi at chicago lou burnard , oxford university tei secretariat : c . m . sperberg - mcqueen , teus @ uic . edu
