Subject: speech act / dialogue move

first call for papers amstelogue ' 99 amsterdam workshop on the semantic and pragmatic of dialogue may 7 - 9 , 1999 university of amsterdam invite speaker : han kamp hann rieser to be announce * * amstelogue ' 99 will be a sequel to the successful dialogue workshop mundial ' 97 ( muenchen ) and twendial ' 98 ( twente ) . like its predecessor , amstelogue ' 99 aim at bring together researcher from different field on the topic of semantics and pragmatic of dialogue . these field include artificial intelligence , formal semantics / pragmatic and computational / apply linguistics . in order to increase the cohesion of the talk in the workshop , we put forward the over-all topic < i > speech act / dialogue move < / i > . the workshop will be organise around the follow three theme : i formal semantic of dialogue this cover topic such as model of common grind / mutual belief , the semantics of goal , intention and commitment in communication , treatment of dialogue move in a formal semantic framework , the semantics of cross-speaker anaphora . ii dialogue system this cover e . g . knowledge representation for multi-agent interaction , dialogue management in practical implementation , semantics and pragmatic of natural language in automate dialogue system . iii dialogue analysis ( empirical ) this cover topic such as turn-take , categorisation of dialogue move or speech act in real ( i . e . , non-construct ) dialogue , aspect of institutional interaction , characteristic of multi-participant conversation , the role of nonlinguistic interaction in communication . - in order to increase the cohesion of the talk across the three theme , we put forward , in addition , the over-all topic speech act / dialogue move . * * the collect abstract of the talk will be provide as workshop proceedings at the start of the workshop . we be negotiate a special issue of the journal of semantic for publish a selection of the papers . * * relate event : the day before the workshop , 6 may , will be occupy to the trindi - project workshop . further information will be make available vium our website . procedure : anyone who be work on the semantics or pragmatic of dialogue be kindly invite to send us a 5 page abstract in latex or ascius ( talk will be 45 minute ) on one of the above mention topic , or a relate topic . please indicate for what theme you be opt . abstract clearly relate to the over-all topic of speech act will be prefer . deadline : 1 february 1999 send to : amstelog @ aus . hum . uva . nl * * organisation : noor van leusen , dept . of computational linguistic , u . v . a , noor @ aus . let . uva . nl robert van rooy , dept . of philosophy , u . v . a , vanrooy @ philo . uva . nl henk zeevat , dept . of computational linguistic , u . v . a , henk @ aus . let . uva . nl more information on website : http : / / earth . hum . uva . nl / ~ amstelog sponsor : dutch research school in logic dutch research foundation
