Subject: semantic

we would like to inform the member of linguist that a new book call semantique , under the direction of michel chambreuil , have just be publish in french by herm . ( ben gharbium , bernigot , chambreuil , gamallo , panissod , reinberger ( 1998 ) , semantique . pari , herm . ) abstract : what can be , today , the object of the semantics of natural language ? what hypothesis can be advance on the entity associate to linguistic expression , and on the operation involve in the process of complex expression ? implicit or explicit , these question be present in all theoretical research on the semantics of natural language . by the analysis of different linguistic theory , follow a similar outline for each of them , this book permit a critical reflection on these question . it also aim at make the current research in which these theory be present more accessible for the reader . moreover , this research , by consider issue on the dynamics of the process of information , its contextualisation , and the fundamental cognitive ability of the speaker , be also in line with broader issue concern , for instance , different domain of computer science or also cognitive science . the different theory deal with be first order predicate logic , intensional semantic , boolean semantic , general semantic ( vanderveken ) , dynamic semantic , situation theory and cognitive grammar . the author of this book , who be linguist , computer scientist , mathematician , be member of the group of semantic of the laboratory of research on language ( lrl ) of the university blaise pascal , clermont ii . their research concern the analysis of fundamental semantic principle , from specific issue such as : conceptual combination , coordination , quantification . michel chambreuil , mathematician and linguist , be professor at the university blaise pascal , clermont - ferrand , france . this book can be order : - on www . editions-herm . fr , - or at the follow adress : 8 , quaus du march - neuf - 75004 pari - france , - or by fax ( 1 53 10 15 21 ) , - or by e-mail : herm @ iway . fr
