Subject: isfc ' 99

isfc99 - - the 26th systemic functional institute and congress department of english language & literature national university of singapore institute : 22-24 july 1999 congress : 26-30 july 1999 theme : linguistic and education on enter the 21st century the institute the three day institute precede the congress offer course in the theory and practice of systemic functional linguistic ( sfl ) by lead figure within the field . for those who be not familiar with the model , the course can provide the necessary background for the congress which be to follow . the major theme that will be treat at the institute include grammar , discourse , sociolinguistic , education , literature , information technology and computational method . the congress the congress will bring together systemic functional linguist and those interest in find out more about the ever increase range of application of sfl . with the 26th international systemic functional congress ( isfc99 ) be hold in singapore , we extend a specially warm welcome to australian and asian participant . in addition we hope that many from europe , north america and other part will be able to join us here in what should be a very special occasion , with a list of plenary speaker that include michael halliday , ruqaiya hasan , hu zhuanglin , jim martin , fran christie and michael o ' toole . the congress theme be linguistics and education on entering the 21st century . we welcome contribution from any of the grow number of theoretical and practical field of sfl include extension to other semiotic system , and application of sfl to education . while we expect the majority of papers and workshop to be locate within a sfl framework , we welcome other contribution include those that offer an alternative perspective . call for offers of papers and workshops if you would like to offer a paper or a workshop , please send your proposal of one page ( a4 or us legal or email equivalent ) email , fax or hardcopy to the address below by 31st december 1998 . if you need a letter of acceptance for fund purpose , please inform us by mark your proposal " urgent " . paper should be design to fit into a 40 minute slot which include the time for question and discussion . the workshop be three hour long . the workshop offer the opportunity for discussion , learn and improve skill such as develop theoretical knowledge and text analysis and demonstration of software and so forth . partial funding partial fund to attend the institute and congress will be consider in exceptional circumstance how to receive the second circular the second circular will contain detail of the programme for the institute and congress , a list of the cost and the registration forms . it be essential that you write , fax or email us in order to receive a copy . the message need only be : " request for second circular " . also if you would like copy of the isfc99 poster , please let us know and we will forward the require number to you . address for correspondence and secretariat email : ellsfc99 @ nus . edu . sg post : isfc99 department of english language and literature national university of singapore 10 kent ridge crescent singapore 119260 fax : ( 65 ) 773 2981 website : further information will be post on the website : http : / / www . fa . nus . edu . sg / ell / systemic / isfc-99 . html location of the institute and congress both the institute and congress will be hold at the regional language centre ( relc ) , international hotel in the centre of singapore . this centre offer first rate conference facility include accommodation , breakfast and lunch ( and coffee break ) . more information about the facility and what to do in singapore will be provide in the second circular . institute and congress organisers joseph foley , kay o'halloran , lionel wee , lisa lim , benny lee and vincent oous and joyce jame ( relc ) . any enquiry relate to academic matter may be direct to : joe foley ellfoley @ nus . edu . sg kay o'halloran ellkoh @ leoni . nus . edu . sg
