Subject: historical ling , history of ling

historical linguistics nostratic . sift the evidence . joseph c . salmon and brian d . joseph ( ed ) 1998 vus , 293 pp . current issue in linguistic theory , 142 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 597 4 price : us $ 75 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 3646 1 price : nlg 150 . 0 the nostratic hypothesis posit a commonlingusitic ancestor for a wide range of language family include indo - european , uralic , and afro - asiatic have produce one of the most endure and often intense controversy in linguistics . overwhelmingly , though , both supporter of the hypothesis and those who reject it have not deal directly with one another argument . this volume bring together select representative of both side , as well as a number of agnostic historical linguist , with the aim of examine the evidence for this particular hypothesis in the context of distant genetic relationship generally . the volume contain discussion of variant of the nostratic hypothesis ( papers by a . bomhard , by j . greenberg , and one by a . manaster - ramer , k . baertsch , k . adam , & p . michalove ) , the mathematics of chance in determine the relationship posit for nostratic ( papers by r . oswalt and by d . ringe ) , and the evidence from particular branch posit in nostratic ( papers by l . campbell , by c . hodge , and by a . vovin ) with response and additional discussion by e . hamp , b . vine , w . baxter and b . comrie . history of linguistics language and its function . a historico-critical study of the pre-humanistic philology of bopp . translate by paul salmon , in consultation with anthony j . klijnsmit . pieter a . verburg1998 xxxiv , 534 pp . study in the history of the language science , 84 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 621 0 price : $ 110 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 4572 x price : nlg 220 . 0 when pieter verburg ( 1905-1989 ) publish taal en functionaliteit in 1952 , the work be receive with admiration by linguistic scholar , though the number of those who could read the dutch text for themselve remain limit . the title allude to the theory of linguistic function set out in 1936 by karl bhler , but verburg regards the three function of discourse focus respectively on the speaker , the person address and the matter discuss as no more than subfunction of the human function of speech . hbe central concern be to explore the relationship between think and language , and language and reality ; and the work set out provide a historical analysis of view on these relationship in the period 1100-1800 . the great strength of the work lie in the way in which the view of language be relate to contemporaneous move in philosophy and science , contrast essentially the mediaeval acceptance of authority , the beginning of induction in the renaissance , the dependence of early rationalism on calculation base on axiomatic truth , and the further development of independent observation . all these trend be reflect in the way man think about language , as well as in the way they use it . much have be write on the history of linguistics since this book be write , but it still offer a unique view of the development of think about language . john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com
