Subject: language 99 : a conference across literature , linguistic , and write

extended submission deadlines ! ! ! ! ! ! ! call for papers language 99 : a conference across literature , linguistic , and write sponsor by the university of north texa and the gsea conference dates 4 - 6 march 1999 conference location university of north texa , denton , texa conference purpose language 99 offer a forum for scholar from the discipline of linguistics , literature , and write , as well as the relate discipline of anthropology , art , communication theory , cultural study , film , history , music , philosophy , psychology , theater , etc . , to examine " language " and " text " both within these discipline and across these discipline . submission deadlines u . s . mail : postmark 25 october 1998 email : 1 november 1998 notification : 10 december 1998 submissions we encourage submission that examine " language " and " text " both within and across the follow : - - literature - - linguistic - - write ( include rhetoric / composition , technical write , creative write ) - - relate discipline ( include anthropology , art , communication theory , cultural study , film , history , music , philosophy , psychology , theater ) we welcome submission that deal with - - cognitive linguistic - - conceptual metaphor - - linguistic analysis of literature instructions for submitting please find complete instruction for submit - - paper abstract - - creative submission - - symposium proposal at our website http : / / www . unt . edu / language we encourage submission from graduate student as well as professional scholar . we cannot accept submission by fax . we accept submission vium e-mail at linglit @ unt . edu or u . s . mail at language 99 university of north texa department of english p . o . box 311307 denton , tx 76203-1307 contacts for more information for more conference information , please write to language 99 university of north texa department of english p . o . box 311307 denton , tx 76203-1307 or direct your question to linglit @ unt . edu visit our web site at www . unt . edu / language for update information about - - plenary speaker - - conference registration - - travel and hotel
