Subject: cfp : foundation for endanger langage

the foundation for endanger language be now accept proposal for project of work that will support , enable or assist the documentation , protection or promotion of one or more endanger language . please pass on this announcement to your friend and colleague in endanger language community who may not have access to the internet or e-mail . form for submission there be a form which define the content of appropriate proposal , and this may be obtain from the foundation 's liaison officer , christopher moseley , < chri _ moseley @ mon . bbc . co . uk > 2 wanbourne lane , nettlebe . oxfordshire rg9 5ah england fax + 44-1491 - 641922 all proposal must be submit in this form , to ensure comparability ( although see note 4 below ) . deadline the time-limit for proposal to be consider in the current round will be the 8th of november 1998 . by that date , proposal and support testimonial must reach christopher moseley , at the address specify in the form . the fel committee will announce its decision before the 31st of december 1998 . four point to note especially : 1 . the foundation 's fund be extremely limit and it be not anticipate that any award will be greater than us $ 1 , 0 . smaller proposal stand a better chance of fund . 2 . where possible , work undertake within endanger language community themselve will be prefer . 3 . the foundation for endanger language ( fel ) be a separate from the endanger language fund ( elf ) < elf @ haskin . yale . edu > , which be also announce its request for proposal about now , but on a somewhat different timescale . it be perfectly possible ( and have indeed occur in the past ) that the same project can be partially fund by both fel and elf . 4 . those who have already submit proposal to fel speculatively should contact chri moseley to confirm what information , if any , still need to be submit . the form should be use to submit this additional information . nichola ostler president foundation for endanger language uk register charity 1070616 http : / / www . bri . ac . uk / dept / philosophy / ctll / fel / batheaston villum , 172 bailbrook lane bath ba1 7aa england + 44-1225 - 85-2865 fax + 44-1225 - 85-9258 nostler @ chibcha . demon . co . uk
