Subject: workshop on dialogue and prosody

call for papers you be invite to submit an abstract plus title to the esca tutorial and research workshop on dialogue and prosody eindhoven ( the netherlands ) , september 1 - 3 , 1999 http : / / www . tue . nl / ipo / slus / etrw . html introduction the ipo , center for research on user - system interaction in eindhoven ( the netherland ) , in association with the eindhoven university of technology ( tue ) and the european speech communication association ( esca ) , be please to announce a 3 - day workshop on dialogue and prosody , which will take place in the eindhoven area in the week before eurospeech ` 99 . anyone deal with theoretical , empirical , computational or experimental approach to the interplay between dialogue and prosody be invite to submit an abstract . we specifically welcome those contribution of which the content be directly relevant for human-computer interaction . motivation now that speak dialogue system be become more sophisticate , increase demand be place on the way these system deal with prosody , both in the generation of system utterance as in the process of user utterance . on the one hand , appropriate prosody may facilitate the process of system utterance by user of a dialogue system . on the other hand , dialogue system may profit from take into consideration prosodic information of user utterance at different level of representation . however , for expert in the area of prosody it be not alway easy to link their work to the development in the domain of dialogue model , wherea researcher work in the area of dialogue model often be rather naive with respect to prosodic model . the goal of the workshop be bring together researcher from both domain to provide either group with a better view of development in the other domain and in this way stimulate progress . format the format of the workshop will consist of keynote presentation by expert in the field of dialogue and prosody model , combine with oral and poster presentation of accept papers . all presentation will be plenary . all contribution to the workshop will be publish in workshop proceedings , that will consist of 4 - page camera-ready papers . as an additional result of the workshop , the organizer intend to produce a work document that will contain an overview of the state-of - the-art , some open research question , and position statement regard the theme of dialogue and prosody . in order to maximize the possibility for fruitful discussion , the number of participant will be limit to about a hundr . priority wil be give to person with accept papers on a first-come first-serve basis . topics question in this domain that could be address at the workshop be for instance : - which prosodic feature of user utterance help the system to improve performance with respect to asr , speech understand , and dialogue management ( turn-take , back-channele ) ? - how can those feature be extract automatically and be make available at the right time ? - with which prosodic feature should system utterance be provide to help the user extract the information convey by the system , and to improve the fluency of the interaction ? - to what extent be prosodic characteristic of user utterance in their interaction with dialogue system different from those in human-human interaction ? - how do we deal with prosodic variability in interaction between human and machine , for instance due to level of expertise ( novice versus expert ) ? submission procedure researcher work in this domain be invite to email a 400 - word abstract ( plain ascius format ) , together with title , affiliation and keyword to diapro @ ipo . tue . nl if electronic submission be not possible , please send 5 copy of a 1 - page abstract to ipo , center for research on user - system interaction etrw on dialogue and prosody p . o . box 513 nl-5600 mb eindhoven ( the netherland ) scientific committee gosta bruce ( sweden ) nick campbell ( japan ) carlo gussenhoven ( the netherland ) julium hirschberg ( usa ) daniel hirst ( france ) merle horne ( sweden ) jill house ( uk ) stephen isard ( uk ) johanna moore ( uk ) elmar noeth ( germany ) anton nijholt ( the netherland ) marus ostendorf ( usa ) thoma portele ( germany ) stephen pulman ( uk ) angelien sanderman ( the netherland ) elizabeth shriberg ( usa ) david traum ( usa ) gert veldhuijzen van zanten ( the netherland ) marilyn walker ( usa ) venue the etrw on dialogue and prosody will take place in the koningshof conference center , which be locate in a rural set in veldhoven , at close distance from eindhoven ( www . koningshof . nl ) . important dates january 15 , 1999 : deadline for submission of title and abstract march 1 , 1999 : notification of acceptance , instruction for author , information on accommodation july 1 , 1999 : deadline for 4 - page camerady-ready paper , early registration september 1 - 3 , 1999 : etrw on dialogue and prosody further information for further information , please contact marc swert ( swert @ ipo . tue . nl ) or jacque terken ( terken @ ipo . tue . nl ) . update information will also be available at http : / / www . tue . nl / ipo / slus / etrw . html
