Subject: logic and natural language semantic

esslli-99 workshop : foundations of intensional logic and natural language semantics call for papers the main focus of the european summer school in logic , language and information be the interface between linguistics , logic and computation . it be organize under the auspices of the european association for logic , language and information ( folli ) . foundational , introductory and advance course together with workshop cover a wide variety of topic within six area of interest : logic , computation , language , logic and computation , computation and language , language and logic . previous summer school have be highly successful , attract around 500 student from europe and elsewhere . the school have develop into an important meet place and forum for discussion for student and researcher interest in the interdisciplinary study of logic , language and information . esslli-99 will take place at the university of utrecht , the netherland , august 9-20 . in its first week it will feature a worskshop on foundations of intensional logic and natural language semantics . it aim be to provide a forum for advance ph . d . student and other researcher to present and discuss their work on the follow issue . intensional logic lie at the heart of a montague - style natural language semantics . it involve a representation of property , relation and proposition ( prps ) . in traditional montague grammar , prps be characterize in term of possible world , and the logico-semantic paradox be avoid by use a russellian hierarchy of type . the problem with this traditional approach ( e . g . , logical omniscience and expressive limitation ) have lead to the flourish of more fine - grain notion of prp , and to type-free solution to the paradox ( gupta and belnap , barwise and etchemendy , cocchiarellum , bealer , asher and kamp , chierchium and turner , etc . ) . the new approach have problem of their own and no new framework have become standard . this workshop thus will explore and compare well - know or newly propose foundational approach for an intensional logic that can serve the purpose of natural language semantics . if you be interest in present your research , please send a two page abstract to : francesco orilium orilium @ unimc . it dipartimento dus filosofium e scienze umane ph . + 39 ( 475 ) 258 305 universit = e0 dus macera fax + 39 ( 475 ) 235 339 62100 macera italy the submission deadline be : march 15 , 1999 . workshop speaker will pay a reduce essli-99 registration fee , which will entitle them to attend all other course and workshop . it may be possible to allocate a sum of about 100 ecu to partially cover the expense of each workshop speaker . there will soon be an esslli ' 99 web page at : http : / / essllus . let . uu . nl / .
