Subject: workshop on language change in japan and east asium

call for papers workshop on language change in japan and east asium university of sheffield , uk 21st - 23rd may 1999 deadline : all submission must be receive by january 10 , 1999 . this workshop aim to provide a forum for present research on language change in japanese and other east asian language ( chinese , korean ) , put language change in the individual language into a broader east asian context . we especially encourage presentation which investigate more than one language . potential topic include , but be not limit to : emergence of vernacular v classical language , historical phonology , japanese - korean - altaic relationship , historical syntax , neologism , loanword , english influence , standardisation and the fate of dialect or minority language , role of kanjus , etc . abstract submit must represent original , unpublish research . presentation will be 20 minute long , plus 10 minute for question and discussion . please submit : 1 ) a clearly title 1 page abstract for review . example and reference may be give on a second page . if your paper be accept , this abstract will be include in the conference handbook . no change in the title or the author ' name will be possible after acceptance . 2 ) for each author , one copy of the information form print at the bottom of this message . please include a self-address , stamp postcard for acknowledgment of receipt . notice of acceptance or rejection will be send by march , 1999 . pre - registration material and a preliminary programme schedule will also be available in march , 1999 . it be anticipate that a volume base on papers present at the workshop will be publish . send submission to : workshop on language change in japan and east asium school of east asian study university of sheffield floor 5 , art tower western bank sheffield s10 2tn telephone : + 44-114 - 222-8400 fax : + 44-114 - 222-8432 e - mail : t . e . mcauley @ sheffield . ac . uk email submission of abstract be encourage . author information form ( one to be fill out completely for each author ) title : topic area : audio - visual equipment request : full name : affiliation : contact address : email address : contact telephone number :
