Subject: terminology and knowledge engineer

last call for paper ( deadline for submission : 30 november 1998 ) 5th international congress on terminology and knowledge engineer tke 99 innsbruck ( austrium ) 23-27 august 1999 organize by association for terminology and knowledge transfer ( gtw ) international information centre for terminology ( infoterm ) international network for terminology ( termnet ) http : / / gtw-org . uibk . ac . at / tke . html general consideration on behalf of the association for terminology and knowledge transfer - gesellschaft fr terminologie und wissenstransfer ( gtw ) - we be please to announce the 5th international congress on terminology and knowledge engineer tke ' 99 which will be hold on the campus of the university of innsbruck , austrium , between 23-27 august , 1999 . in continuation of the first four tke congress in trier ( 1987 and 1990 ) , cologne ( 1993 ) and vienna ( 1996 ) , tke ' 99 will address world-wide interest in the interdisciplinary method of terminology science , information science , computer science . it should furthermore help achieve the " universal availability of information and knowledge " vium computerize method , multimedium content-orient net application and other tool , open new horizon for more efficient application base upon this integration of methodology and elicit the interest and participation of expert work in the field that be gradually draw nearer from the point of theory and methodology such as * knowledge engineer * language engineer * computational philosophy * classification theory * information & documentation * computer - assist instruction / learn * computerise terminography * specialize translation * technical write * culture - relate aspect of terminology tke ' 99 will address world-wide interest in the interdisciplinary method of terminology study , information science and computer science . it will help achieve the " universal availability of information and knowledge " vium computerize method , multimedium content-orient net application and other tool as well as open new horizon for more efficient application base upon this integration of methodology . tke 99 will also elicit the interest and participation of expert work in the field that be gradually draw nearer from the point of theory and methodology . general schedule while monday and tuesday be reserve for workshop , the main conference with parallel section and the exhibition will be hold from wednesday to friday . the conference start with a general open on wednesday morn . the keynote address " conceptual navigation in multimedium knowledge space " will be hold by prof . kim veltman from the renown european mcluhan institute for digital culture in maastricht . the second international infoterm award for apply research and development in the field of terminology ( terminology ard award 1999 ) will be award in conjunction with the tke 99 . there will also be the 13th gtw general assembly , meeting of the iitf , termnet and a tdcnet presentation . a high-rank multimedium summit be plan for the day after the tke . section the conference be subdivide into section and workshop . the first will address theoretical problem and question regard each topic wherea the workshop cater for more application-orient issue . the follow section be plan for tke ' 99 ; the person mention be organizer and member of the review panel . the keyword ( key ) should help to define the topic of each section . section 1 : philosophy of science and terminology study e . oeser , g . budin key : knowledge theory , logic , epistemology , ontology , cognitive science , semiotic , fundamental of computational philosophy section 2 : knowledge resource management kd . schmitz , s . e . wright , i . meyer key : knowledge datum model , information management , knowledge rich terminology datum base , terminology and other datum interchange , encyclopedic knowledge , reference tool , copyright issue , terminology and knowledge datum extraction section 3 : knowledge transfer by specialist communication h . picht , s . shelov , j . graham key : specialize language , knowledge and technology transfer section 4 : terminology in multimedium , education and train c galinskus , k . prochazka , t . cabr i castellvus , h . sonneveld key : multus / hypermedium teach and train , call , re-usability of language resource for textbook and other teach material , scientific and technical write , tele - and online teach , new media and www didactic section 5 : terminology , localisation and internationalization a . melby , s . e . wright , k . h . freigang key : software localisation , technical documentation , user interface , usability validation and test , liability issue , distribute cooperative author vium the internet , unicode and www , language datum in non - european script , interface between product datum in td and cad / cam as well as inventory control , new technology ( e . g . thin film display , ' intelligent ' textile etc . ) , quality management and terminology section 6 : terminology in new world wide web application k . ahmad , f . mayer , c . plest alvarez key : preparation , representation and distribution of terminology and knowledge through the www , e-commerce , database and online publish , global engineer network ( gen ) , ipr issue , liability issue , knowledge management in virtual enterprise , definition of smallest knowledge unit ( for account etc . ) section 7 : terminology in the multilingual information society c . lauren , y . arsky , j . myke key : human translation , terminology in plurilingual setting , multilingualism policy / strategy , language policy in enterprise , internationalization and globalisation , terminology documentation network , european multilingual information society , global information alliance . section 8 : culture in the multimedium information society h . benk , a . goppold , g . budin key : multimodality of contents , index of cultural information , multidimensional classification of culture information , distribution and market of cultural information through the internet , culture and multimedium technology : bidirectional impact , influence of esthetic on mm technology and database model , terminology in cultural information system , culture-specific concept in cross-culture communication , terminological methodology for multilingual culture encyclopedia design and publish submit paper the overall time for presentation include time for discussion will be 30 minute . the papers may be present in english , german or french while the submit write version for the proceedings should be in english . accord to the time schedule above some 50 papers ( include the keynote speech at the general open and the second keynote address on thursday morn ) will be present at tke ' 99 . the abstract should be send preferably by e-mail ( peter . sandrinus @ uibk . ac . at ) , a submission form be available on the tke home page at http : / / gtw-org . uibk . ac . at / tke . html , by mail or by fax . author be ask to provide an abstract of their papers to the organizer by 30 november 1998 , at the latest . the abstract undergo a review process carry out by the program committee and the section organizer . by the end of january 1999 the author will be inform about the acceptance of their papers . they will have time until 30 march 1999 to submit the full version , which will be process for publication in the proceedings and print prior to the congress . proceeding the proceeding of tke ' 99 will be publish in advance by termnet . there will be one volume of the proceeding include all papers in topic order . the proceedings will be available for the participant at the begin of the congress . workshop workshop within the framework of the congress be hold on monday and tuesday . several workshop in correspondence with the section topic either with a more application-orient or research-orient emphasis be plan . exhibition within the framework of the general tke conference an exhibition / fair will be organize from wednesday through friday and coordinate by termnet . the condition for exhibitor will be available from termnet . location the workshop on monday and tuesday as well as the congress itself be plan to be hold in the room of the university of innsbruck . detail plan for venue , lunch , exhibition etc . will be give later . tke youth forum student and young graduate interest in terminology and knowledge engineer will be welcome to the tke conference and a special package ( tke youth forum ) will be available which comprise : reduce congress fee reduce workshop fee admission to the youth forum this special package apply to student and graduate with a degree not older than three year . a photocopy of the student id or passport be require . congress fee detail information on congress fee will be give in the program to be print and distribute at the begin of 1999 . for the speaker accept , a reduction of 50 % will be allow . conference participant request a reduce fee will have to provide adequate proof . program committee : khurshid ahmad , university of surrey ( great britain ) yurus arsky , viniti ( russium ) heiner benk , universitt ulm ( germany ) gerhard budin , universitt wien ( austrium ) teresa cabr i castellvus , universitat pompeu fabra , barcelona ( spain ) karl - heinz freigang , universitt de saarland , saarbrcken ( germany ) christian galinskus , infoterm , vienna ( austrium ) andrea goppold , universitt ulm ( germany ) john d . graham , deutscher terminologietag e . v . ( germany ) jiao yunqus , csicci ( china ) christer lauren , university of vasa ( finland ) felix mayer , europische akademie bozen ( italy ) alan k . melby , brigham young university , provo ( usa ) ingrid meyer , university of ottawa ( canada ) johan myke , bergen ( norway ) erhard oeser , universitt wien , vienna ( austrium ) heribert picht , handelshojskolen i kobenhavn , copenhagen ( denmark ) cecilium plest alvarez , universidad de antioquium ( colombium ) kurt prochazka , tgm ( austrium ) peter sandrinus , universitt innsbruck ( austrium ) klaus - dirk schmitz , fachhochschule kln , cologne ( germany ) sergey d . shelov , committee for scientific terminology in fundamental research ( russium ) helmus sonneveld , eaft ( netherland ) sue ellen wright , kent - state - university , ohio ( usa ) organize committee christian galinskus , infoterm , vienna ( austrium ) klaus - dirk schmitz , fachhochschule kln , cologne ( germany ) peter sandrinus , universitt innsbruck ( austrium ) hideshiro nakamoto , iris , tokyo ( japan ) irmgard rieder , universitt innsbruck ( austrium ) roberta schwarz , termnet ( austrium ) support organisation : international institute for terminology research ( iitf ) german terminology society ( dtt ) european association for terminology ( eaft ) tdc - net consortium - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - pre - registration : tyrol congress gmbh rennweg 3 , a-6020 innsbruck tel . + 43 + 512 / 575600 fax : + 43 + 512 / 575607 email : tyrol . congress @ tirol . com - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - contribution and abstract : gesellschaft fr terminologie und wissenstransfer ( gtw ) universitt innsbruck fischnalerstr . 4 a-6020 innsbruck ( austrium ) tel . + 43 512 507 4261 fax + 43 512 507 2966 http : / / gtw-org . uibk . ac . at email : peter . sandrinus @ uibk . ac . at - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - peter sandrini institut fuer uebersetzen und dolmetschen tel + 43 330 507 4261 der universitaet innsbruck ( austrium ) fax " 2966
