Subject: eacl ' 99 student cfp

we be please to announce the first call for student paper for eacl ' 99 ( bergen , norway 8 - - 12 june 1999 ) . the call ( text version below ) can be find at http : / / www . im . uni-stuttgart . de / eacl99 - student / the conference home page be at http : / / www . hit . uib . no / eacl99 / the student session programme committee jona kuhn , student chair atro voutilainen , faculty co-chair - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - * * * eacl ' 99 call for student papers * * * student session at the 9th conference of the european chapter of the association for computational linguistic eacl ' 99 june 8 - 12 , 1999 university of bergen bergen , norway http : / / www . im . uni-stuttgart . de / eacl99 - student / - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - purpose : the goal of these session be to provide a forum for student member to present work in progress and receive feedback from other member of the computational linguistics community . the session will consist of paper presentation by student author . the accept papers will be publish in a special section of the conference proceedings . note that the existence of the student session do not influence the treatment of student-author papers submit to the main conference . rather , the aim of the student session be to provide a separate track emphasize student ' work in progress rather than complete work . requirements : paper should describe original , unpublish work in progress that demonstrate insight , creativity , and promise . topic of interest be the same as for the main conference . paper submit to the main conference cannot be consider for the student session . student may , of course , submit different papers to the main conference and the student session , or papers on different aspect of a particular problem or project . note that for papers present join work , all co-author have to be student . format for submission : the maximum allowable length be 3 page ( about 1800 word ) , include reference . paper should be head by a title page contain the paper id code ( see below ) , title , a short ( 5 line ) summary , up to three general keyword specify the subject area ( e . g . , " french syntax , machine translation " ) , the word count ( exclude figure and bibliography ) and a notice of multiple submission , if require . since review will be ` blind ' , the title page of the paper should omit author name and address . furthermore , self-reference that reveal the author ' identity ( e . g . , " we previously show ( smith , 1991 ) . . . " ) should be avoid . instead , use reference of the form " smith previously show ( 1991 ) . . . " cbe should be take to avoid obvious giveaway in the bibliography such as listing for unpublish in-house technical report . paper outside the specify length and / or without an id code be liable to rejection without review . to identify each paper , an id code must be acquire by file an electronic paper registration form : http : / / www . ltg . ed . ac . uk / eacl99 / register . html on successful completion of this form an id code will be send to the designate author by e-mail . media of submission : author may submit their papers electronically or in hard copy . electronic submission be strongly prefer . electronic submission should be either self-contain latex source , postscript or pdf ( we encourage latex submission ) . postscript submission must use a standard font . latex submission should not refer to any other external file or style except for the standard style for tex 3 . 14 and latex 2 . 09 . the bibliography for a latex submission cannot be submit as separate . bib file ; the actual bibliography entry must be insert in the submit latex source file . we strongly recommend the use of acl - standard latex : http : / / www . ltg . ed . ac . uk / eacl99 / style / eaclsub . sty ( plus bibstyle acl . bst ) or word style file ( msword _ template . rtf ) for the preparation of submission . these style include a place for the require information such as id code and word count , and allow for a graceful transition to the style require for publication . if you cannot use the acl - standard style directly , a description of the require format be at http : / / www . ltg . ed . ac . uk / eacl99 / style / substyle . html . if you cannot access this web page , send email to eacl99 @ cogscus . ed . ac . uk with subject substyle for an automatic reply . electronic submission should be send to eacl99 - student @ im . uni-stuttgart . de hard copy submission should consist of four ( 4 ) paper copy of each paper ( print on both side of the page if possible ) should be submit to the follow address : eacl ' 99 student session c / o jona kuhn ims , univ . stuttgart azenbergstr . 12 70174 stuttgart germany enquiry to the student session committee by email at eacl99 - student @ im . uni-stuttgart . de . schedule : submission must be receive by 18 january 1999 . leat submission ( those arrive on or after 19 january 1999 ) will not be consider . acknowledgement will be email soon after receipt . notification of acceptance will be send to author ( by email ) by 10 march 1999 . camera - ready copy of final papers prepare in a double-column format , preferably use a laser printer , must be receive at the main programme committee in edinburgh by 19 april 1999 , along with a sign copyright release statement . detail format guideline will be provide to author with their acceptance notice . the student paper session will take place during the main conference on 9-11 june 1999 . venue and local organisation : the conference will be hold in bergen , norway from 8 through 12 june , 1999 . see the conference home page http : / / www . hit . uib . no / eacl99 / for local arrangement information . the local arrangement committee be chair by koenraad de smedt . the local arrangement committee can be reach at : humanity information technology university of bergen alligaten 27 5007 bergen norway phone : + 47 5558-8008 fax : + 47 5558-9470 email : eacl99 @ uib . no student session committee : the student session committee be co-chair by atro voutilainen ( university of helsinkus ) and jona kuhn ( university of stuttgart ) . atro voutilainen jona kuhn department of general linguistic ims , univ . stuttgart p . o . box 4 azenbergstr . 12 fin-00014 university of helsinkus 70174 stuttgart finland germany phone : + 358 9 191 23 507 ( office ) phone : + 49-711 - 121-1354 fax : + 358 9 191 23 598 fax : + 49-711 - 121-1366 email : atro . voutilainen @ helsinkus . fus jona @ im . uni-stuttgart . de timetable : 1999 18 jan submit student papers due in stuttgart 10 mar decision on programme send to author 19 apr final version of papers due in edinburgh 9-11 jun student session at conference in bergen
