Subject: review : scobbie : autosegmental representation

scobbie , jame m . ( 1997 ) autosegmental representation in a declarative constraint - base framework , garland press , new york . [ revision of 1991 phd dissertation , university of edinburgh ] [ * ] michael hammond university of arizona jim scobbie 's dissertation , recently publish in the outstand dissertation in linguistic sery through garland press , be an excellent example of a pre - optimality - theory attempt at a constraint-base phonology that have receive insufficient attention in the phonological community . this be extremely unfortunate , as the thesis make a number of interest proposal that be well worth consider today . the dissertation be not in the usual vein of american phonology thesis . it 's not an in-depth analysis of some particular array of datum . rather , it appear to fit a much more european template , with more attention pay to place the author 's proposal in the context of previous idea . despite this very different approach , there be much to recommend it . the general hypothesis pursue be that phonological generalization and representation be best cast as attribute-value structure . these formal device be draw from the hpsg ( head - drive phrase - structure grammar ) literature ( pollard & sag , 1987 ) . the basic idea be that dominance be express as something roughly equivalent to a featural distinction . for example , in a standard phonological representation the fact that a vowel may be high be express by assign the vowel a ' + ' for a feature [ high ] , e . g . [ + high ] . express in attribute-value formalism , the attribute [ high ] have the value ' + ' . hpsg go one step further and encode dominance in the same fashion . thus , the fact that a syllable have a [ + high ] nucleus be express by posit a nucleus attribute for a syllable element and then allow the nucleus attribute to itself have [ + high ] as an attribute-value pair . ( 1 ) the formal object above denote a syllable with a [ + high ] nucleus . ( i ' ve indicate irrelevant information with ellipsis . ) in the context of these representation , scobbie 's central claim be that autosegmental association can be formalize as dominance in an attribute-value structure . phonological representation also encode linear order , but in scobbie 's theory , linear order be formalize only for root node ( and be indicate with index ) . a string of segment would then be represent as a set of index root matrix , essentially of the follow sort . ( 2 ) indice be order by the relation immediate precedence ' ' . [ 1 ] with these structure , scobbie go further and suggest that phonological rule should be trade in for constraint . these constraint , he suggest , be formally indistinct from the representation they apply to . ( a rather similar position have be advance in ot . see russell , 1995 and hammond , to appear . ) for example , a generalization exclude mid nasal vowel would be express as follow . ( 3 ) such an expression rule out an element which be simultaneously specify [ - low ] , [ - high ] , and [ + nasal ] . constraint do n't actually " apply " to representation . rather , scobbie propose , constraint be unify with representation . unification allow to representation to meld , just so long as they do n't conflict . for example , a representation consist solely of ifferent element . for example , the index variable below indicate that the two matrix share the token value for a , but merely share the type value for b . ( 6 ) scobbie develop this formalism in a number of way . first , he argue that representation like the one above be subject to what he call the share constraint ( p . 93 ) . ( 7 ) share constraint if a structure be dominate by two path of type p with index i and j , where , then for every index n where there be a path dominate m . the immediate effect of this be to rule out case where noncontiguous root element share a token value . scobbie argue that the evidence for such case be weak . ( cf . a very similar proposal in archangelus & pulleyblank , 1994 . ) a more interest consequence be that scobbie use this constraint in an attempt to derive the no - cross constraint ( ncc ) , part of goldsmith 's ( 1976 ) more general well - formedness condition on autosegmental representation . this be the constraint that rule out cross autosegmental association line . sagey ( 1986 ; 1988 ) first propose to derive the ncc from a treatment of autosegmental association as overlap . however , hammond ( 1988 ) argue that this notion be formally problematic propose a different characterization of association as a transitive , irreflexive , and asymmetric relation . hammond 's approach , however , do not derive the ncc without stipulation . scobbie 's approach also involve an asymmetric characterization of association ( as dominance ) , but do derive the ncc . scobbie 's derivation of the ncc be base on the assumption that there be no contour value . that be , while two different root node may share a value token as in the second picture below , one root node cannot bear two different value , as in the first picture below ( where " s " indicate a segment or root node and " t " indicate a tone or value token ) . ( 8 ) this be a necessary position give his formalization of sequence : only root node bear an index for linear position ; nonroot token be unsequence . ( a similar position be develop in heiberg , in prep . ) were contour value to be allow , there would be no way to distinguish their order . on the other hand , when two root node share a value , their order be distinguish in term of index , as in ( 6 ) . the upshot of the prohibition on contour be that violation of the ncc can only arise when there be an independent share violation . that be , ncc violation look like ( 9 ) , and ( 9 ) necessarily include a share violation . ( 9 ) this be a very nice result , but come at the cost of i ) rule out discontinuous association , and ius ) exclude contour value . scobbie also argue that his approach allow him to derive the phenomenon of geminate integrity ( haye , 1986 ; schein & steriade , 1986 ) . the basic idea of geminate integrity be that geminate resist epenthesis . ( see guerssel , 1977 ; 1978 for an early treatment and suh , 1997 for a recent proposal . ) the standard account of this be that geminate resist epenthesis because the result would entail cross association line , and a violation of the ncc , as in ( 9 ) above . the problem with this , as note by scobbie and other as well , be that if the epenthetic vowel be featureless ( 10 ) or insert on another tier ( 11 ) , then no violation of the ncc occur . ( 10 ) ( 11 ) scobbie 's own proposal be simple and direct . epenthesis into a geminate structure result in a violation of share , regardless whether the epenthetic vowel have feature or whether its feature may appear on some other tier . scobbie go on to consider the possibility that geminate inalterability may also follow from the share constraint , but here his proposal be a lot more speculative . the basic idea pursue be that geminate inalterability result from default rule . the problem be that scobbie do n't really offer a clear proposal on the nature of default rule . on the face of it , they would seem to be a glare problem for the monotonic theory he propose . in his final substantive chapter , scobbie treat the problem of long-distance association , as in , e . g . arabic verbal morphology . he offer some well-taken criticism of the traditional autosegmental approach , but do not really offer an explicit declarative counterproposal . in sum , this book be well worth read . it offer a very interest alternative constraint-base view of phonology with much to recommend it . on the other hand , there be a number of unresolve question . what about float segment ? scobbie speculate on this , but offer no satisfy solution . as note above , contour segment be also rule out , though the evidence for these in the tonal domain be unimpeachable . [ 3 ] reference archangelus , d . & d . pulleyblank ( 1994 ) ground phonology , mit press , cambridge . bird , s . ( 1995 ) computational phonology , cambridge university press , cambridge . goldsmith , j . ( 1976 ) autosegmental phonology , doctoral dissertation , mit . guerssel , m . ( 1977 ) " constraint on phonological rule " , linguistic analysis 3 , 267-181 . guerssel , m . ( 1978 ) " a condition on assimilation rule " , linguistic analysis 4 , 225-254 . hammond , m . ( 1988 ) " on derive the well - formedness condition " , li 19 , 319-325 . hammond , m . ( to appear ) " there be no lexicon ! " , coyote paper . haye , b . ( 1986 ) " inalterability in cv phonology " , language 62 , 321-351 . heiberg , a . ( in prep ) doctoral dissertation , u . of arizona . pollard , c . & i . sag ( 1987 ) information - base syntax and phonology , volume 1 , csli 13 . russell , k . ( 1995 ) " morpheme and candidate in optimality theory " , m . , u . of manitoba , roa . sagey , e . ( 1986 ) the representation of feature and relation in non - linear phonology , doctoral dissertation , mit . sagey , e . ( 1988 ) " on the ill-formedness of cross association line " , li 19 , 109-118 . schein , b . & d . steriade ( 1986 ) " on geminate " , li 17 , 691-744 . suh , c . - k . ( 1997 ) consonant geminate : toward a theory of integrity and inalterability , doctoral dissertation , u . of arizona . [ * ] thank to jim scobbie for useful discussion . any misinterpretation , lapse , or other error be my own . [ 1 ] though as scobbie ( p . c . ) point out , order these with precedence instead will allow for a treatment of epenthesis , morphological intercalation , and the like . [ 2 ] my expository characterization be procedural , but of course , unification be not formally so . [ 3 ] a number of similar idea be develop in bird ( 1995 ) .
