Subject: lexicon

linguistics association of canada and the united states the twenty-sixth lacus forum to be held at the university of alberta edmonton , alberta , canada august 2nd - 7th , 1999 feature lecturer : joan bybee , univesity of new mexico wallace chafe , uc santa barbara conference theme : the lexicon abstract be invite on any topic relate to the lexicon , include those list below , but abstract on other linguistic topic will also be consider : lexical semantic the mental lexicon relationship of lexicon and syntax relationship between lexical and conceptual information relationship between lexical and morphological information relationship between lexical and phonological information the cortical representation of lexical information diachronic lexicology : the lexicon through time conceptual category and lexical category cognitive treatment of lexical information lexical function lexicalization idiomaticity abstract should be anonymous ( no indication of the author ) and should : l - have an informative but brief title 2 - clearly state the problem to be address or the research question raise by prior study . 3 - state the main point ( s ) or argument ( s ) of the propose presentation , with relevant datum if possible . if the paper be empirically base , state specific hypothesis and at least an outline of result obtain . 4 - show relevance to other work or to linguistic research . 5 - give reference to literature cite in the abstract . submit abstract vium e-mail with 3 camera-ready copy simultaneously send vium snail mail to the address below . those without e-mail available should send 16 hard copy vium snail mail . each author should also send by snail mail a 3x5 " card bear name , address ( especially e-mail ) affiliation , phone , title of paper , audio-visual equipment require ( an overhead projector will regularly be available ) , eligibility for prize , time desire ( normally 15 or 25 minute plus discussion time ) , and identification of one or more topic under which the paper fall ( from above list , or specify if another ) . proposal for panel jor special session - - identify propose participant - - be also welcome . please contact ruth brend or syd lamb right away with your idea ( see address below ) . the annual president ' predoctoral prize ( $ 100 ) and postdoctoral prize ( $ 500 - - for young untenure scholar ) will be award to the best papers in each category ( only single-author presentation consider ) . limit fund to assist scholar come from country with weak currency may be available . for information contact the conference committee chair . submit abstract & proposal to : ruth brend , chair , lacus conference committee , 3363 burbank dr . , ann arbor , mi 48105 , usa ( tel . 313-6652787 ; fax 313-6659743 ; e-mail , rbrend @ umich . edu ) . deadline for receipt of abstract : january 15 , 1999 . the university of alberta , the second largest english speak university in canada , be locate in edmonton , a cosmopolitan and ethnically diverse city of almost a million people locate just a few hour drive from the magnificent canadian rocky ( about 4 hour to jasper and about 5 hour to banff - - the drive be easy and breathtakingly beautiful ) . quite reasonable hotel accommodation will be available at the edge of campus , within easy walk distance to the conference room . accommodation will also be available on campus . restaurant can be find both on and at the periphery of campus , while downtown edmonton be accessible vium the subway . further information will be send to all lacus member and to nonmember author of accept abstract in march . conference committee : ruth brend , michigan state university ( emerita ) , chair angelum dellum volpe , californium state university , fullerton sydney lamb , rice university gary prideaux , university of alberta loi stanford , university of alberta address question about the conference to : ruth brend < rbrend @ umich . edu > syd lamb < lamb @ rice . edu > address question about alberta to : gary prideaux < gary . prideaux @ ualberta . ca > , loi stanford < lstanfor @ maildrop . srv . ualberta . ca >
