Subject: phoentic / phonology : r . goedeman , weightless segment

new from holland academic graphic rob goedeman weightless segment a phonetic and phonological study concern the metrical irrelevance of syllable onset weightless segment deal with a specific question that arise when we regard the stress rule of quantity-sensitive language . in these language , vowel and coda consonant can , by virtue of their presence or absence , influence the weight of the syllable , and thus , indirectly , the location of word stress . it be common knowledge that onset consonant do not have this capacity . the question that this book , research within the laboratory phonology framework , try to answer be why . a phonetic explanation for the weightless behaviour of syllable onset be seek in the durational behaviour of onset , nucleus and coda . assume that duration be the primary phonetic correlate of phonological weight , an asymmetry in the durational behaviour of these subsyllabic constituent may explain the observe difference in potential weight . a series of production and perception experiment be conduct to reveal this asymmetry , and to explain it . a further task that be undertake in this book be the reanalysis of a group of , mostly australian aboriginal , language for which some degree of onset influence in their stress rule have be claim in the past ( in defiance of the universal rule that onset do not count ) . in the second part of this book , after a general overview of stress in aboriginal language , it be show that these offend language can all be reanalyse without any reference to onset influence whatsoever . content : 1 . introduction 2 . onset duration in production experiment 3 . the perception of syllabic duration 4 . exploratory psychophysic 5 . the role of onset in stress rule 6 . two case study 7 . conclusion 1998 . viius + 262 pp . isbn : 90 5569 42 x . paperback . [ lot international sery 9 . hil / leiden university dissertation . ] price for individual order directly from the publisher : nlg 42 . 0 ( excl . vat and p&p ) . < http : / / www . hagpub . com > holland academic graphic po box 53292 2505 ag the hague the netherland fax : + 31 70 448 127
