Subject: lexical semantic workshop - - esslli ' 99

esslli-99 workshop on lexical semantics and linking in constraint-based theories august 16-20 , 1999 a workshop hold as part of the 11th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli-99 ) august 9 - 20 , 1999 , utrecht , the netherland * * first call for papers * * organiser : valium kordonus ( university of tuebingen ) background : in recent year , there have be an increase interest among syntactician in the interface between syntax and word mean . in constraint-base theory like lfg and hpsg , this interest have lead to the development of the lexical mapp theory ( lmt ) and the hierarchical lexicon model , respectively . have as a common start point their recognition for the importance of word class for the interface between syntax and lexical semantics , lmt and the hierarchical lexicon model vary both ontologically , and in the range of linguistic phenomenon they attempt to explain , some of which include , but in no way be they limit to , the follow : - split intransitivity phenomenon ( unaccusative v . unergative verb ) - variation among verb of emotion and location - subcategorization alternation and the link of indirect argument - morpholexical process , include causative verb - complex predicate - symmetric predicate the aim of the workshop be to provide a forum for researcher and advance ph . d . student to present and discuss approach on empirical and formal issue relate to the syntax - lexical semantic interface in the framework of lfg and hpsg . the workshop intend to continue the series of course and workshop on lexical semantics and on the interaction between morphology , syntax and semantics hold at previous summer school . it be also dedicate to support inter-framework discussion , since it be focus on the lexical semantics and link component of both lfg and hpsg . workshop format : the workshop will consist of five session with two 30 + 10 - minute presentation in each session . submissions : all researcher in the area , but especially ph . d . student and young researcher , be encourage to submit a two-page abstract either as hardcopy or electronically ( postscript only ) . submission should be send until february 15 , 1999 . notification of acceptance will be give to contributor around april 15 , 1999 . contributor of accept papers will be ask to provide an extend abstract ( 10 page ) in latex format to be include in a summer school reader . the deadline for the submission of the extend abstract be may 31 , 1999 . submission should be send to the follow address : valium kordonus universitaet tuebingen seminar fuer sprachwissenschaft kleine wilhelmstr . 113 d-72074 tuebingen germany korder @ sf . nphil . uni-tuebingen . de registration : workshop contributor will be require to register for esslli-99 , but they will be eligible for a reduce registration fee . important dates : feb 15 , 99 : deadline for submission apr 15 , 99 : notification of acceptance may 31 , 99 : deadline for final copy aug 16 , 99 : start of workshop further information : the workshop will take place in association with the 11th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli ) to be hold in utrecht , the netherland ( 9-20 august 1999 ) . the main focus of the european summer school in logic , language and information be the interface between linguistics , logic , and computation . the esslli summer school be organize under the auspices of the european association for logic , language and information ( folli ) . foundational , introductory and advance course together with workshop cover a wide variety of topic within six area of interest : logic , computation , language , logic and computation , computation and language , language and logic . previous summer school have be highly successful , attract around 500 student from europe and elsewhere . the school have develop into an important meet place and forum for discussion for student and researcher interest in the interdisciplinary study of logic , language and information . to obtain further information about esslli-99 please visit the esslli-99 home page at http : / / essllus . let . uu . nl /
