Subject: variety of english

second international conference on major variety of english maven ii lincoln university campus , england september 9-11 , 1999 conference theme : the english language today : function and representation plenary speaker : nichola coupland ( university of wale , cardiff ) eric fudge ( university of read ) salikoko mufwene ( university of chicago ) robert phillipson ( university of roskield ) the main aim of the conference be to profile the change global presenceof english and the result effect on development and change in the language today . paper proposal be invite on all aspect of the use of major variety of english today , in particular on the follow theme : formal and functional development and change in english mediate use of english international profile of english english and corporate culture english language in literature english and world communication compet target variety fo learner text and corpus analysis etc . submission of paper proposal abstract of paper proposal should be no more than 250 word in length , and should be double space . please submit three copy , one with name , affiliation and personal detail ( address for correspondence , phone / fax number , e . mail address ) . please mention at the bottom what area or theme you believe your abstract cover ( e . g . pragmatic , medium language , dialectology , political sociology etc . ) send abstract to reach no later than dec . 30th 1998 to : p . b . nayar faculty of art and technology lincoln university campus brayford pool lincoln , ls6 7ts unite kingdom abstract may also be submit as an attachment to e . mail ( one copy with all information require ) to : pnayar @ ulh . ac . uk or atate @ humber . ac . uk or ljohnson @ lincoln . ac . uk paper should be target for a half-hour slot , of which at least 10 minute will be reserve for post-presentation discussion . so the available time for actual paper presentation will be 20 minute . notification of acceptance will be make by march 15 , 1998 lincoln university have an attractive , modern campus with excellent facility , on a scenic location in the historic cathedral city of lincoln . lincoln be well connect by rail and road from london ( 120 mile ) manchester ( 90 mile ) and nottingham ( 40 mile ) . accommodation the registration package include two night in very modern , comfortable on-campus room with ensuite bath and self-cater facility at very moderate price . an additional night will cost 15 . there be also several hotel in the city within walk distance from the campus . the cost range from 50 to 80 per night . registration full conference package : registration + on campus accommodation for two night + two breakfast 150 registration only : 120 daily registration : 45 conference dinner on 10 / 9 / 99 25 ( optional ) all rate include lunch ( e ) and refreshments on the day of attendance . there will be a late surcharge on registration receive after june 1 , 1999 all presenter will receive detail information package . for enqury and additional information , contact : the conference secretary - maven ii faculty of art and technology lincoln university campus brayford pool lincoln , ln6 7ts u . k . tel : + 44 1522 886251 fax : + 44 1522 886021 e . mail : pnayar @ ulh . ac . uk atate @ humber . ac . uk ljohnson @ lincoln . ac . uk information and update also available on our website at www . ulh . ac . uk / communication
