Subject: final call : penn ling . colloquium

* * call for papers * * the penn linguistic club announce the twenty - third annual penn linguistic colloquium saturday 27 february and sunday 28 february 1999 invite speaker : angelika kratzer , university of massachusett we welcome papers on any topic in linguistics and relate field . this year 's colloquium will feature a special session on application of constraint base approach in any of the subfield of linguistics , include but not limit to phonology , morphology , syntax , semantics-pragmatic , computational linguistics , sociolinguistic , historical linguistics , and language acquisition . speaker will have twenty minute for their presentation and five minute for discussion and question . prospective speaker should submit three copy of their abstract no later than tuesday 1 december 1998 to : the penn linguistic colloquium committee department of linguistic 619 william hall university of pennsylvanium philadelphium pa 19104-6305 abstract should be no longer than 2 page in a 12 - point font with 1 - inch margin and should be accompany by an index card include your name , affiliation ( department and institution ) , address , e-mail address and the subfield of linguistics ( or relate discipline ) that you find most appropriate to your topic . in particular , please indicate whether you would like your paper to be consider for inclusion in the special session . no more than one single and one join abstract per author may be submit . submission by e-mail in ascii or latex to plc23 @ babel . ling . upenn . edu be welcome . proceeding of the conference will be publish as a volume of the penn work paper in linguistic . author who present papers agree to submit a camera-ready copy of their paper by may 31 , 1999 . if you have further question , please contact us at the above address or vium e-mail at plc23 @ babel . ling . upenn . edu . the colloquium web page can be find at http : / / www . ling . upenn . edu / ~ nrh / plc23 . html sincerely , the colloquium committee
