Subject: multilingual ocr ( optical character recognition )

* * * first call for participation * * * international workshop on performance evaluation issue in multilingual ocr ( optical character recognition ) sunday , september 19 , 1999 , bangalore , indium ( just before icdar ' 99 - - int ' l conf . on document analysis and recognition ) workshop chairs tapa kanungo university of maryland , college park , md usa henry s . baird xerox parc , palo alto , ca usa organizing committee badr al-badr king abdulaziz city , saudus arabium torsten caesar siemen electrocom , germany bhabatosh chanda isi calcutta , indium doug cooper southeast asian software research center , thailand andrea dengel dfki , germany steve dennis u . s . government , usa xiaoq ding tsinghua university , p . r . china david doermann university of maryland , usa michel gilloux service de recherche technique de la poste , france robert m . haralick university of washington , usa tin kbe ho bell laboratory , lucent technology , usa donna harman national institute for standard & technology , usa jonathan hull ricoh crc , usa fumitaka kimura mie university , japan hsi - jian lee national chiao tung university , r . o . china seong - whan lee korea university , korea tomohiko morioka japan advance institute for science & tech . , japan s . p . mudur national center for software technology , indium yasuakus nakano shinshu university , japan kri popat xerox parc , usa philip resnik university of maryland , usa a . lawrence spitz document recognition technology , usa rohinus srihari cedar , suny buffalo , usa ching y . suen concordium university , montreal , canada yuan yan tang hong kong baptist university , china vadim tereschenko abbyy software house , russium jun tsukumo nec , kanagawa , japan toru wakahara ntt human interface laboratory , japan technical focus this workshop will explore evaluation methodology for multilingual ocr system . by ` multilingual ' we mean to include system that be capable of read more than one language in the same document , as well as one-language - per-document system that can be easily retarget to new language . we hope to bring together researcher from many country to discuss these and relate question : - - what methodology should be use to evaluate multilingual ocr system ? how do we compare accuracy across language ? - - what ground-truthe datum set be now available in various language ? what kind of dataset need to be collect ? how be this to be achieve ? which organization may be will to support such an the effort ? - - what multilingual ocr evaluation tool and error visualization tool be available or should be develop ? - - what ocr evaluation method and metric will be useful for ocr - base machine translation and cross-language information retrieval ? - - what be the most press open research problem , promise dissertation topic , etc ? workshop format this will be a one-day workshop for a maximum of 70 participant . each participant will submit an extend abstract which will be distribute at the workshop . all participant be expect to contribute to the discussion . at the outset of the workshop , three volunteer will present brief , informal summary of the i ) methodology , ius ) corpus , and iius ) tool mention in the submit abstract . then we will split up into three work group , focus on these topic , and proceed to discuss key issue , attempt to resolve question , compile list of resource , and draw up recommendation . finally , in a plenary session , representative of each group will present their recommendation and invite general discussion . there will be several opportunity for informal discussion and socialize . after the workshop , the organize committee will compile a workshop summary , base on the work group note , and make it available on the web . it be hop that the workshop will stimulate cooperative follow-on activity that will accelerate the pace of research in multilingual document image analysis . extended abstract submission each potential participant or group of participant should submit an extend abstract , electronically vium e - mail ( in plain ascii ) , no later than march 30 , 1999 to : tapa kanungo center for automation research university of maryland college park , md 20742 e - mail : mlocr @ cfar . umd . edu the abstract should include the name , address , telephone , fax , and email address of the author ( s ) . it should ordinarily be limit to six print page include reference ( no figure , please ) . longer submission may be admit in special case , e . g . for catalogue of resource . accept abstract will be distribute at the workshop and post on the workshop website . workshop website http : / / www . cfar . umd . edu / ~ kanungo / workshop / mlocr . html
