Subject: silverman book review

silverman , daniel . ( 1997 ) . phase and recoverability . outstand dissertation in linguistics series . new york : garland publish . 242 page . review by stefan frisch , university of michigan . this book be a revise version of the author 's 1995 ucla dissertation . the primary thesis defend by silverman be that auditory salience play an important role in explain the typology of phonological segment inventory . the relative phase of laryngeal and supralaryngeal gesture be examine as a case study . silverman demonstrate there be a typological preference for phase pattern in which the gesture be optimally recoverable . further , he propose that sub-optimal pattern be only find in inventory where the optimal pattern be also present . ( note that silverman do not crucially adopt the segment as a phonological primitive . he be concern primarily with gesture and their realization in a system of syntagmatic contrast . the term 's egment ' and 's egment inventory ' be use only for expository convenience . ) synopsis : chapter 1 . introduction this chapter introduce the primary thesis : cross - linguistically , laryngeal and supralaryngeal gesture be phase to make their value maximally auditorily salient . silverman argue that parallel production of contrastive gesture be informationally optimal , but only if those gesture be auditorily recoverable . in case where parallel production would make contrastive value unrecoverable , gesture be serially sequence . for example , in aspirate stop , laryngeal abduction be sequence to follow the stop closure , result in broadband noise . if laryngeal abduction and stop closure be simultaneous , the state of the larynx would not be recoverable from the result acoustic signal ( silence ) . silverman also introduce the ' gestural score ' notation of articulatory phonology ( browman & goldstein , 1986 ) use in the description of the gestural pattern . each gestural score be accompany by a set of temporally align description of acoustic cue which highlight the importance of the recoverability of the gesture . the result segmental percept be also give , to highlight whether all of the contrastive segmental information have be effectively transmit . using this notation , he exemplify the four logically possible phase pattern : parallel , sequence , expand , or truncate . in the parallel phase pattern , two gesture be phase to be fully simultaneous . in the sequence pattern , two gesture be serially order . in the expand pattern , one gesture both begin before and end after another . in the truncate pattern , one gesture be phase to be simultaneous with a portion ( begin or end ) of another gesture . chapter 2 . previous work in this chapter , silverman review previous research on articulatory time , auditory response to acoustic signal , and the relevance of auditory contrastiveness to segmental inventory . two result be of particular importance . first , a combination of auditory factor favor pattern where low intensity signal be follow by high intensity signal . second , language employ contrast which be maximally auditorily distinct . chapter 3 . obstruent and laryngeal gesture this chapter contain typological evidence to support silverman 's thesis . cross - linguistically , laryngeal gesture of abduction or constriction be overwhelmingly phase to follow supralaryngeal constriction , which maximize the recoverability of both gesture . the sub-optimal pattern , where the laryngeal gesture precede the stop release be find only when the optimal pattern be also present . for obstruent , which have a minimum of acoustic energy to work with , these be the only two phase pattern . chapter 4 . sonorant and laryngeal gesture sonorant have a greater amount of acoustic energy , and so laryngeal gesture can overlap with supralaryngeal gesture . the most attest pattern , for language which do have a laryngeal contrast for sonorant , be for the laryngeal gesture to be truncate to the begin portion of the supralaryngeal gesture . parallel to the obstruent case , this phase pattern put the low-energy breathy or glottalize portion of the sonorant before the high-energy modally-voice portion , maximize auditory salience . again , the less optimal pattern truncate the laryngeal gesture to the latter portion of the supralaryngeal gesture . ordinarily , the laryngeal and supralaryngeal gesture be not completely overlap , as contrastive supralaryngeal gesture ( such as nasal place of articulation , for example ) would be render non - recoverable . however , an interest special case be find in lateral . due to the formant structure of lateral , language generally do not have contrast in their place of articulation . thus , in some case ( e . g . zulu ) , contrastive laryngeal gesture be realize fully parallel with the supralaryngeal gesture . a similar pattern be find for coda nasal in comaltapec chinantec , where the place of articulation be contextually determine . in contrast to onset nasal , which have contrastive place of articulation , laryngeal abduction be realize in parallel with the supralaryngeal gesture in coda nasal and no contrast be lose . chapter 5 . vowel and laryngeal gesture in this chapter , vowel with contrastive laryngeal gesture be discuss . silverman claim that , since vowel have an abundance of acoustic energy , laryngeal gesture can be implement in parallel with supralaryngeal gesture without loss of auditory contrast . however , this pattern be auditorily the least optimal . like the sonorant case , the optimal pattern be for the laryngeal gesture to be truncate to the begin portion of the vowel , result in ? v or hv sequence . less optimal be the opposite phase pattern , result in v ? or vh . typologically hv be indeed much more prevalent than voiceless vowel or vh ( and similarly for laryngeal constriction ) . the bulk of the chapter ( and the book ) be devote to ' laryngeally complex ' vowel in the otomanguean language . the term larygeally complex be use for vowel which realize both contrastive phonation ( breathy or creaky ) and tone . one example , comaltapec chinantec , have eight vowel quality with five tonal quality and two voice quality . in addition , this language have nasalization and a length contrast which lead to 320 possible realization of the nucleus . not surprisingly , word in this language be generally monosyllabic , and nucleus quality be use to differentiate many of the lexical contrast . silverman argue that simultaneous realization of breathiness / creakiness and tone would render the tone contrast unrecoverable . the cross-linguistically prevalent pattern be for the laryngeal contrast to be truncate to the begin of the vowel , which be auditorily optimal . the tone be then saliently realize during modal phonation in the latter portion of the vowel . the opposite sequence , with the laryngeal after the tonal contrast ( and modal phonation ) be also attest . silverman find only two case where tonal and laryngeal contrast be execute simultaneously ( the tibeto - burman language mpi and tamang ) . in one of those case , there be only two tone , so tonal contrast may not be in as much danger , as the tone would be more distinct than in the case of comaltapec chinantec , with eight tone . critical evaluation : overall , this be an inspirational volume demonstrate the importance of auditory / phonetic explanation for phonological pattern . it be one of the first of a series of ucla dissertation on this topic , which together address a wide range of phonological phenomenon . silverman 's analysis bridge the phonetics / phonology gap in a number of way . for example , an arbitrary number of phase difference , which may be dismiss as ' phonetic implementation ' , be show to be reducible to a small set that can be phonologically contrastive . this reduction , vium the more abstract temporal relationship of simultaneity and precedence , nicely complement work in speech perception on the cross-linguistic ( and cross-specy ) robustness of the categorical perception of voice onset time continua ( kuhl & miller , 1975 ; pisonus , 1977 ) . to its credit , this book contain over a dozen reasonably detail case study on the realization of laryngeal contrast in different language . in many case , recording be available so the presence of the phase relationship be verify , and spectrogram of appropriate example be give . these case study often address potential counterexample to silverman 's typological claim . for example , the mon - khmer language chong possess coda stop with contrastive creakiness , but creakiness be realize only in the non-optimal way as a pre-glottalize stop . in the chong case , however , other aspect of the morphophonology require the non-optimal realization to avoid loss of contrast . in particular , coda stop be obligatorily unrelease , and the language be non-suffix . due to these additional constraint , post-glottalize phase would not saliently encode the larygneal contrast . this type of constraint interaction be quite compatible with the general approach of optimality theory ( prince & smolensky , 1993 ) , and in fact the original version of this dissertation present constraint tableau in such case . the propose constraint be quite broad and be informally describe , so the optimality theoretic analysis do not add to the exposition , and the book read more easily without it . despite the lack of a formalist analysis , this book raise a number of issue which be relevant to current formal concern . in the otomanguean language copalum trique there be different phase relationship between vocalic and laryngeal gesture . the laryngeal gesture ( breathiness and creakiness ) can be truncate to the first portion of the vowel , the second portion of the vowel , or can ' interrupt ' the vowel , appear in the middle . these three location for a laryngeal gesture support lexical contrast , and there be clear evidence that the interrupt vowel be monosyllabic . encode these three configuration use more abstract representation than articulatory phonology be no trivial task . in addition , the correspondence theory approach to faithfulness consider segmentally align and order input and output ( mccarthy & prince , 1995 ) . the presence of relatively small but contrastive difference in phase require subsegmental correspondence relation between the input and output . another miss aspect of an optimality theoretic analysis would be a factorial typology of constraint interaction . while silverman 's coverage be quite extensive , i would be interest in see a discussion of the pro and con for each logical possibility in phase between laryngeal and supralaryngeal gesture . such a discussion will eventually be need in order to determine whether the silverman 's proposal be be truly predictive , or just informally define to the extent that any observe pattern could be explain . in a few instance , silverman make use of the upsid database of segmental inventory ( maddieson , 1986 ) to demonstrate that the typological prediction be satisfy . unfortunately , quantitative difference be not report in most case . while sufficient datum may not be available , a quantitative analysis be desirable in order to address a current question in work on phonetic explanation for phonological pattern : are non-optimal pattern avoid to the degree that they be non-optimal ? in other word , be the hypothesize functional force of auditory recoverability transparently reflect in the pattern within and across language , or be it ' phonologize ' in some way by the language learner such that there be no quantitative relationship ? the answer to this question have implication for the architecture of the phonetically ground grammar , as quantitative constraint or quantitative constraint ranking would be require . this book touch on a number of other very important issue that should be topic of ongo research . the central role of the recoverability of contrast lead inevitably to the question : what be a contrast ? assume the psychological reality of the segment provide a simple answer , but one which be not entirely correct . the three contrastive phase relationship in copalum trique be not amenable to a segmental analysis . in chong , a combination of coda unrelease and lack of suffixation be claim to lead to pre-glottalize stop . this case be contrast with korean , where there be some suffixation , and post-glottalize stop be maintain in that environment but neutralize elsewhere . i wonder how frequent the neutralize environment must be before a non-optimal pattern become necessary or the contrast be lose ? why be n't the laryngeal gesture phase before the stop closure in the neutralize environment , but after in the non-neutralize environment ? perhap some other constraint be involve here . in many of the case study give , the simple syllable structure and monosyllabic tendency of the language be mention as reason why complex and non-optimal phase relation be find at all ( in most case , the optimal recoverability of supralaryngeal gesture be find if contrastive laryngeal gesture be not use at all ) . this suggest that there be some minimal set of contrast require to create a sufficient number of open class item for a language to be a useful communication system , and that difference in syllable structure , word length , and segmental inventory size interact in some fashion to this end . the answer to these deeper question appear to be closer to our understand when the phonological system be conceptualize as imply in this book , as a combinatorial system of articulatory / acoustic contrast highly constrain by a variety of functional factor . reference : browman , c . p . & goldstein , l . ( 1986 ) . toward an articulatory phonology . phonology yearbook 3 : 219-252 . kuhl , p . k . & miller , j . d . ( 1975 ) . speech perception by the chinchilla : voice - voiceless distinction in alveolar plosive consonant . science 190 : 69-72 . mccarthy , j . j . & prince , a . ( 1995 ) . faithfulness and reduplicative identity . paper in optimality theory . university of massachusett occasional papers 18 . amherst , ma : glsa . pp . 249-384 . pisonus , d . b . ( 1977 ) . identification and discrimination of the relative onset time of two component tone : implication for voice perception in stop . journal of the acoustical society of america 61 : 1352-1361 . prince , a . & smolensky , p . ( 1993 ) . optimality theory : constraint interaction in generative phonology . rutger university center for cognitive science technical report 2 . new brunswick , nj : ruccs . reviewer : stefan frisch , language learn visit research assistant professor , program in linguistic , university of michigan . ph . d . , northwestern university , 1996 . research interest include phonetics , phonology , psycholinguistic , and computational linguistics . reviewer 's address : stefan frisch program in linguistic university of michigan 1076 frieze build 105 s . state st . ann arbor , mi 48109-1285 safrisch @ umich . edu http : / / www-personal . umich . edu / ~ sfrisch
