Subject: logic linguistic and information

first announcement and call for papers esslli-99 workshop on focus and presupposition in multi-speaker discourse university of utrecht , 9-13 august 1999 context : the workshop be part of the 11th european summer school " logic linguistic and information " ( esslli ) , to be hold in utrecht from 9-20 august 1999 . the esslli summer school be organize under the auspices of the european association for logic , language and information ( folli ) . previous esslli summer school have be highly successful , attract around 500 student from europe and elsewhere . the school have develop into an important meet place and forum for discussion for student and researcher interest in the interdisciplinary study of logic , language and information . for more information on esslli ' 99 see : http : / / essllus . let . uu . nl / . workshop description : the aim of the workshop be to explore the interrelation between theory of focus , theory of presupposition and their implementation in a formal theory of dialogue . topic to be discuss include : - the relation between focus and presupposition . - the role of answer focus in formal model of questions-answer exchange . - the treatment of presupposition in multi-speaker discourse . - the relation between deaccentuation , contextual givenness , and presupposition . - the role of focus and deaccent in establish discourse coherence . practical matters : paper presentation will be 45 minute long ( include 15 minute for discussion ) . abstract should not exceed 1500 word , and can be submit either by email or by regular mail . email submission should be in postscript or plain ascius . please include " esslli workshop " in the subject line of your message , and send it to : bart . geurt @ mpus . nl abstract submission by regular mail should consist of 3 copy , and be address to : bart geurt max planck institute for psycholinguistic postbox 310 nl-6500 ah nijmegen the netherland workshop speaker be require to register for the summer school . however , workshop speaker will be able to register at a reduce rate to be determine by the organize committee . dates : - deadline for submission of abstract : 1 march 1999 - notification of acceptance : 1 may 1999 - workshop to be hold : august 9-13 for any question , please contact the organizer : bart geurt university of osnabrueck & max planck institute for psycholinguistic , nijmegen bart . geurt @ mpus . nl manfr krifka university of texa at austin krifka @ mail . utexa . edu rob van der sandt university of nijmegen rvdsandt @ phil . kun . nl
