Subject: southeast conference on linguistic

secol 30th anniversary meeting spring 1999 linguistic for the twenty - first century call for papers : due december 7 old dominion university will host the spring 1999 meet of secol , which will be hold at the norfolk waterside marriott in norfolk , virginium on april 8th , 9th and 10th . we will be celebrate the 30th anniversary of the found of the organization . the feature speaker for the spring meet be william labov of the university of pennsylvanium and walt wolfram of north carolina state university . labov will make a presentation on " the triumph of southern sound change , " show that certain element of southern dialect be now find to be occur throughout north america . walt wolfram 's presentation will be on " the southern context ( s ) of earlier aave . " base on his examination of longstand african american community in the pamlico sound area of north carolina , he argue that earlier african american speech be much more diverse than the contemporary version of the vernacular and explain why aave have undergo such a dramatic movement toward a normative vernacular over the last half century . in addition , natalie schill - este will moderate a discussion by a group of younger scholar on " fieldwork for the new century , " which will deal with ethical issue , approach to fieldwork , current and emerge technology , and fieldwork priority for the 21st century . abstract guideline please send six copy of an abstract of your paper - - not to exceed 300 word - - to the secol office for the consideration of the program committee . do not put your name on the abstracts so they may be judge anonymously . please copy and fill out the follow form and staple it to one copy of your abstract . after the papers be referee , we will notify you of the committee 's decision . the abstract must arrive at the secol office no later than 7 december 1998 . guidelines i . give the title of the paper at the top of the page . do not give your name or other identify information . abstract will be judge by the program committee without the knowledge of the identity of the author . ii . the abstract should not be longer than 300 word . they must be typewrite , double-space , and the copy may be xerox . iii . a statement of the topic or purpose of the paper should be include , preferably as the first paragraph . a . if your paper involve the analysis of linguistic material , give appropriate example , along with a brief indication of why they be important to your argument . b . if your paper be to present the result of experiment and you do not yet have those result , indicate the nature of the experiment and why the result will be significant . c . state the relevance of your idea to past work or to the future development of the field . d . state your conclusion ( however tentative ) ; avoid say thing like " a solution to this problem will be present . " if you be take a stand on a controversial issue , do not simply say which side you take ; summarize the argument that lead you to take this position . name : affiliation : mailing address : title of paper : indicate special equipment need : all papers for this meet should be design for 20 minute delivery time . abstract must arrive at the secol office no later than 7 december 1998 . send six copy of your abstract to : marvin ching or joan weatherly southeastern conference on linguistic department of english the university of memphi memphi , tn 38152
