Subject: language , interaction , and culture

* * * * * * * * * * call for papers * * * * * * * * * * the center for language , interaction , and culture ( clic ) graduate student association at ucla and the language , interaction , and social organization ( liso ) graduate student association at ucsb issue its call for papers for the fifth annual conference on language , interaction , and culture to be hold april 29 - may 1 , 1999 . this year 's conference will be host by the liso graduate student association at the university of californium , santa barbara . plenary speaker : dr . don kulick dr . kulick will also lead a pre-conference workshop for graduate student . registration information will be forthcome . submission should address topic at the intersection of language , interaction , and culture and would preferably be base on record , spontaneous interaction . they must be hard copy and should include : ( 1 ) a detachable title page that include ( a ) the title of the paper , ( b ) the author 's name , affiliation , postal address , e-mail address , and phone number , ( c ) a list of equipment need for the presentation ; and ( 2 ) six copies of a 500 - 1 , 0 word extend abstract of the paper . no information identify the author may appear in the abstract . three copy of submit abstract must be receive no later than friday , february 5 , 1999 . liso be an ongo seminar group at the university of californium , santa barbara , whose member share an interest in the analysis of record social interaction through various approach , include conversation analysis , interactional sociolinguistic , and functional linguistics . liso be compose of faculty and graduate student from linguistics , sociology , and education , among other department . clic be locate at the university of californium , lo angele . the purpose of clic be to promote cross-disciplinary discussion about issue regard language as a complex resource for think and act in the world . clic be compose of faculty and graduate student from anthropology , apply linguistics , education , psychology , and sociology . submission not receive in triplicate or not receive by the deadline will not be consider . further question can be address vium e-mail to clic @ uclum . edu or harbison @ cat . ucsc . edu . all submission should be mail to : liso graduate student association university of californium , santa barbara department of sociology 2834 ellison hall santa barbara , ca 93106-3100
