Subject: book review

gopnik , alison and andrew n . meltzoff ( 1997 ) word , thought and theory . cambridge : mit press . 268 page . $ 14 ( paperback ) reviewd by laura wagner , university of massachusett . gopnik and meltzoff ( g&m ) have write a book that be full of idea and information . they be interest in what our representation of the world look like and they be push the view they call the theory theory : that our representation be organize around theory . more than that , they argue that child 's representation of the world be also organize around theory and that developmental change child undergo be in fact change in their theory . even more than that , they argue that the theory revision that child make be of precisely the same type as scientific theory revision . that be , the difference between a 9 month old and an 18 month old be essentially the same as that between a newtonian physicist and an einsteinian physicist : they possess qualitatively different theory of how the world work . the use of " word " in the title refer to two claim that g&m make : one , that child 's early vocabulary reflect technical notion in their theory du jour and two , that linguistic element can act as part of the evidence child use in theory build . the book be divide into three section , in addition to the introduction and conclusion . the first section address the theoretical commitment of the theory theory and relate it other theory of cognitive organization and development . the second section examine three domain of knowledge for evidence of child 's change theory . the third section have a neo - whorfian flavor and address the question of how different language could effect child 's theory-build . part 1 : the theory theory in this section , g&m face head on what be certainly the most difficult of their claim to swallow , namely that child 's early theory about the world be qualitatively the same as scientific theory and subject to revision in the same way . while acknowledge that there be many difference between the way scientist and infant operate , they nevertheless maintain that they both construct the same sort of theory in the same way . the theory of both be abstract and general , and therefore provide a means for make prediction in a variety of domain . both group be concern with the match of the theory to the world and will maintain a theory only as long as the evidence support it . when evidence mount against a theory , the theory holder go into a transitional state , actively seek out new sort of evidence , conduct experiment and develop new technical vocabulary as they settle into a new and better theory . one of g&m 's strong claim be that the standard adult theory ( the so-cal " folk-physic " and " folk-psychology " , e . g . ) be in principle open to revision ; it be develop in response to inadequate child theory of the world , and , as with all scientific theory , it too will be revise , if the need arise . the second chapter in this section compare the theory theory to two other prominent cognitive model , modularity and empirical generalization ( e . g . , script , connectionism ) . g&m do not present the theory theory as a substitute for either of these model completely but as take over some role from each . thus , with respect to modularity , the theory theory account well for many central cognitive process and some of the less perceptually orient modular process ; with respect to empirical generalization , the theory theory be better equip to deal with thing like causal linkage and can provide a deeper level of explanation in general , but such generalization may still form an important basis for the creation of theory . part 2 : evidence for the theory theory part 2 consist of three chapter which each take on a different knowledge domain and show how the theory theory can explain child 's development in these area . chapter 4 deal with child 's theory of appearance and address child 's development with respect to object permanence . chapter 5 take on child 's theory of action and causality with animate and inanimate thing . chapter 5 address child 's develop theory of natural kind . each chapter discuss what the adult theory in each of these domain look like and then marshal experimental evidence that demonstrate what the infant 's initial theory look like and what subsequent revision to their theory the child make . in each domain , they argue that child make crucial theory change around the age of 9 month and again around the age of 18 month . g&m report the result from many experiment ( a large number of them conduct by g and / or m themselve ) which amply illustrate that child 's competence in these domain change ( and improve ) with age . this experimental evidence be at time augment with anecdotal account of how infant affectively interact with different task at different age . g&m be look for scientific behavior from these child and it be therefore important not only that child can pass more task as they get older ( and their theory get better ) but that they view the task differently as they get older . they point to example of emotional consternation that infant show around the time that their theory be putatively change . thus , a 15 month old will fail to find an object that have be secretly move to a new hide place but will be unperturb by her failure ; a 21 month old will find the object in the new place but will be unimpress by her own success . an 18 month old , however , be both deeply disturb when she fail ( and by the structure of the task as a whole ) but be joyful with success . g&m argue that such affective difference reflect something like the blase-ness of normal science compare to the eureka moment that mark a theory in change . with respect to linguistics , one of the claim from these chapter be that early utterance may correspond to technical vocabulary of newly form theory . g&m 's argument be particularly intrigue with respect to performative utterance , such as " go " and " uhoh " which be quite frequent in the speech of 18 month old but have be largely ignore in language acquisition study . they claim that , for example , the emergence of the word " go " in child speech be closely link with child 's ability to solve an invisible displacement task ( when an object be secretly move to a new hide place ) . " gone " indicate an object that be out of sight for any reason , and it be in effect a technical term , reflect a concept in the infant 's new theory . part 3 : language and thought in the previous chapter , the kind of evidence that g&m suggest be drive theory formation and revision arise primarily from child 's interaction with object , action and people in the world . in this chapter , g&m note that language itself be part of the child 's world and different language could in principle provide different kind of evidence . since the child 's theory be not innately give but be presume to be construct on the basis of the evidence they get from the world , different kind of linguistic evidence could lead to different theory , or at least to different rate of theory formation . they find support for the effect of language in theory build in a series of longitudinal , crosslinguistic study look at child acquire korean and english . they do not cover the experiment in detail , but the gist of them appear to be that korean be more verb-centric while english be more noun-centric and this linguistic difference translate into korean child develop their theory of action more quickly than their english counterpart , who for their turn , develop their theory of natural kind more quickly than the korean child . evaluation despite the fact that the theory theory inform an active psychological research program , this book be primarily a book of philosophy . thus , the result from a large number of experimental investigation be discuss but no one experiment be discuss in sufficient detail to be critically evaluate . any reader not already well acquaint with the cognitive developmental literature may find themselve somewhat confuse ( and perhap somewhat unconvince ) about how g&m be able to draw the conclusion that they do from the experiment report . this problem may have be remedy to some extent by detail explanation of one or two experiment that could act as representative example and the use of diagram depict the sort of task use to test infant . a few more diagram and / or summary table would have be helpful in general . the theory theory be dynamic in form and g&m trace two or three theory change within three different knowledge domain . the critical point about theory change come through clearly , but many of the detail get lose in the mass of information ; a summary table describe the different theory ( and perhap the evidence that lead to theory revision ) would have be a useful reference . although g&m devote an entire chapter to persuade the reader that infant theory development and scientific theory development be the same , ultimately this argument remains unconvince and the insistence on this point throughout the book have the effect of lessen the force of their claim , rather than strengthen them . there be many reason to be skeptical of the link between the two set of theory builder but i think the most compel reason to reject their argument be that it seem to do a grave injustice to the entrenchment of our folk-scientific reason . in a nutshell , our adult folk-science be a stable level of knowledge and may not , even in principle , be subject to revision . g&m try to argue against this powerful intuition in two way . first , they point to the fact that science have move beyond our folk theory , so those theory can't be the last word in what be true . while i agree that einsteinian physics be probably more true ( i . e . , a better model of the world ) than my own folk-physic , i ' m still stick with my inadequate theory . g&m appeal to the division of knowledge-labor to claim that the theory really have change at a societal level , but that only highlight the fact that for the common person , our folk-science be unrevisable . g&m 's second argument that our folk-science be open to revision be that we can imagine a world that would require a different theory , and they frequently invoke the tv show star trek as illustrate such a world . this fantasy argument leave me entirely cold , partially because i have no strong intuition ( as g&m seem to ) about , for example , the status of object in a star trek transporter beam , and partially because i believe that they be place far to heavy a burden on a piece of popular fiction . it should be note , however , that reject the most extreme of g&m 's claim do not fundamentally undermine their argument that knowledge be organize around theory and that developmental change reflect change in child 's theory . even if child 's theory be not of the same type as scientific theory , analyze our knowledge in term of some kind of theory and child 's development as some form of theory change be still a very intrigue and compel perspective to take . in sum , g&m have raise a number of extremely interest question about the nature of knowledge representation , the nature of theory , the nature of cognitive development and the relationship of language to cognitive development . they offer the theory theory as a way to address these question and , although one may not believe that the theory theory actually have the answer , it be certainly an important view in the debate . review by laura wagner , department of psychology , university of massachusett - amherst . my research center on child 's acquisition of tense and aspect .
