Subject: functional phonology , paul boersma

new from holland academic graphic : functional phonology . formalize the interaction between articulatory and perceptual drive by paul boersma in functional phonology , paul boersma develop a theory that seek to explain and describe the datum of the language of the world from general capability of human motor behaviour and perception . by separate the role of the articulation and the audition of speech sound , it predict and clarify generalization about the organization of human speech , and solve several outstand controversial phonological issue . provide a synthesis between the " phonetic " and " phonological " standpoint , the theory of functional phonology express explanatory functional principle like the minimization of articulatory effort and the minimization of perceptual confusion directly in a descriptive formal grammar , and offer a typologically and empirically adequate alternative to generative theory of autosegmental phonology and feature geometry . the subject cover in this book include articulation and perception model , constraint-base account of phonetic implementation , the acquisition of articulatory and perceptual phonological feature value , an algorithm for learn stochastic grammar , the construction of phoneme inventory , circular optimization in sound change , and a determination of the fundamental principle that underlie the surface phenomenon sometime ascribe to the primitive phonological operation of spread and the obligatory contour principle . this book will appeal to phonologist interest in the possibility that the grammar directly reflect common principle of efficient and effective communication , to phonetician interest in the idea that phonetic explanation can be express as constraint interaction in a formal grammar , and to any linguist interest in the innateness debate . content : introduction part i . representation 1 . representation and feature 2 . articulation model 3 . acoustical simulation 4 . perception model 5 . test of the articulation model part ii . constraint 6 . functional optimality theory 7 . articulatory constraint 8 . perceptual contrast and faithfulness 10 . acoustical faithfulness 11 . typology and the local-rank hypothesis 12 . corespondence 13 . degree of specification part iii . grammar 14 . learn a production grammar 15 . how we learn variation , optionality and probability 16 . inventory 17 . sound change 18 . the obligatory contour principle 19 . spread 20 . conclusion 1998 . xius + 494 pp . isbn 90 5569 44 6 . paperback . [ lot international sery 11 . ifott / university of amsterdam dissertation . ] price for individual order directly from hag : nlg 66 . 0 ( excl . p&p and vat ) . holland academic graphic , the hague < http : / / www . hagpub . com > .
