Subject: computational linguistic / phd student

2nd call for papers 2nd annual cluk research colloquium ( cluk = computational linguistic u . k . ) january 11th - 12th 1999 university of essex the cluk colloquium aim to offer phd student in natural language process and relate discipline an opportunity to present and discuss their work with member of the wider research community . the colloquium be organise as mini-conference . candidate submit an abstract , which be referee by the cluk programme committee . presentation be hold in conference style session , to which senior establish researcher be invite . the 2nd annual cluk research colloquium will be hold at the university of essex , on monday 11th and tuesday 12th of january 1999 . this year , we be please to announce two invite speaker to the event : professor johanna moore ( university of edinburgh ) dr ren bod ( university of leed ) detail can be find on http : / / cswww . essex . ac . uk / staff / udo / cluk . the page will be update on an ongo basis . for more information about the university of essex , the campus and how to get there , see http : / / www . essex . ac . uk / about / main . html - call for papers : date and format author be request to submit a 500 word abstract of their presentation ( include name , address , email address and title ) to : anne de roeck department of computer science university of essex . wivenhoe park colchester co4 3sq email : deroe @ essex . ac . uk submission as email ascii text be prefer , but hardcopy format will be accept . submission deadline : november 23rd notification of acceptance : december 14th abstract will be referee by the programme committee : anne de roeck , university of essex ( chair ) adam kilgarriff , university of brighton diana maynard , manchester metropolitan university mark moen , university of edinburgh nichola ostler , linguacubun ltd . john tait , university of sunderland carole tiberius , university of brighton yorick wilk , university of sheffield the cluk committee will actively pursue a means of publish select full papers in a journal or monograph series . - local arrangement and cost the meet will start at 11 be on january 11th , and will finish after lunch on january 12th . it be organise by the organise committee ( email : cluk2 @ essex . ac . uk ) : anne de roeck udo kruschwitz nick webb rachele winn - secretarial cost of participation be 55 ukp and include tea / coffee , lunch and dinner with wine . accommodation will be in local hotel . participants are expected to book their own accommodation , though we will provide information and assist where we can . problem should be address to cluk2 @ essex . ac . uk . an on-line registration page can be find on our website ( see above ) .
