Subject: resource logic and minimalist grammar

esslli ` 99 workshop on resource logics and minimalist grammars ( deadline for submission : march 15th 1999 ) utrecht , 16-20 august 1999 organizer : christian retor ( irisa , renn ) edward stabler ( ucla , lo angele ) url : http : / / www . irisa . fr / rlmg e - mail : rlmg @ irisa . fr a workshop hold as part of the 11th european summer school in logic , language and information ( esslli ` 99 ) , august 9-20 1999 , utrecht first call for papers esslli ` 99 : the main focus of the european summer school in logic , language and information be the interface between linguistics , logic and computation . it be organize under the auspices of the european association for logic , language and information ( folli ) . foundational , introductory and advance course together with workshop cover a wide variety of topic within six area of interest : logic , computation , language , logic and computation , computation and language , language and logic . previous summer school have be highly successful , attract around 500 student from europe and elsewhere . the school have develop into an important meet place and forum for discussion for student and researcher interest in the interdisciplinary study of logic , language and information . esslli-99 will take place at the university of utrecht , the netherland , august 9-20 . in its second week it will feature a worskshop on resource logic and minimalist grammar . it aim be to provide a forum for advance ph . d . student and other researcher to present and discuss their work on the connection between minimalist grammar and resource logic . workshop background : there have be a grow interest in connection between resource-logical theory of grammar and the minimalist grammar of the transformational tradition in syntax . a good understand of these connection will reveal substantial difference that can be debate , and the prospects also look good for identify a valuable common grind . in particular , the rich descriptive tradition of transformational theory may become more accessible to resource-logical framework , and the relatively well-understood mathematical foundation of resource-logical framework may stimulate a more sophisticate understand of the mechanism of minimalist grammar . linear logic be a neat and well study logic from a proof theoretical perspective which be able to handle both logic for syntax ( like the lambek calculus ) and logic for semantics ( like intuitionistic logic ) , and it also appear to be a sensible framework for a logical treatment of minimalist grammar . this workshop aim to bring together phd student and other researcher in the respective tradition to explore these development . topic of interest include but be not limit to : * application of linear logic , multimodal categorial logic , and other resource logic to linguistic problem * formal and computational study of minimalist and other generative grammar * study of linguistic semantics from the perspective of either tradition * assessment of the common grind and difference among these approach to language workshop aims : this workshop aim to : * provide a set for researcher from various tradition to present and discuss recent work on resource logic and minimalist grammar * facilitate the exchange of idea between researcher work in these respective area * foster a spirit of collaborative research call for papers : researcher in the area , include phd student and young researcher , be invite to submit short papers ( between 8 and 12 page long ) describe their thesis / research topic , approach and result . talk will be 20 minute long , with 10 minute for discussion / question . author be also encourage to submit a list of topic they would like to see discuss at the workshop . this will help to identify issue for discussion and debate . deadline for submissions : march 15 , 1999 submission should be send to : rlmg @ irisa . fr submission will be accept in the form of either postscript or self-contain latex . author of accept papers will be notify by may 1st 1998 . the deadline for receipt of revise papers to appear in the workshop proceedings be june 1st 1998 . workshop format : the workshop will consist of five session of 90 minute each hold over five day . there will be either two or three presentation at each session with time for question and discussion . it be hop to have at least one invite paper from a senior researcher work in the field . publication : after the workshop , author will have the opportunity to submit papers for possible publication in the new electronic journal " language and computation " ( http : / / www . dc . kcl . ac . uk / journal / jlac / ) , which be support by oxford university press . there will be more detail in the next announcement . registration : workshop contributor will be require to register for esslli-99 . important dates : march 15th , 99 : deadline for submission may 1st , 99 : notification of acceptance june 1st , 99 : deadline for final copy august 16th , 99 : start of workshop further information : to obtain further information about esslli-99 please visit the esslli-99 home page at http : / / essllus . let . uu . nl or send an email to esslli99 @ let . uu . nl . for further information on the workshop visit the site of the workshop http : / / www . irisa . fr / rlmg or send an email to rlmg @ irisa . fr
