Subject: book : english verb

author : eugene m . russakovskius , associate professor , kharkov state automobile & highway technical university ( xadi ) , kharkov , ukraine . title : " encyclopedium of english verb form : rule & exception " publish house : " karavellum " ( kharkov , ukraine ) ; " prestige " ( moscow , russium ) year of publication : 1998 isbn 's : 966-586 - 30 - 4 , 588-569 - 009 - x language : russian ( verb table be give in english ) price : $ 30 + ship and handle " encyclopedium . . . " deal with all english verb have non-standard grammatical paradigm . the book may be consider as a [ very ] far go generalization of the page 96-120 of the well-known monograph by r . quirk , g . n . leech , s . greenbaum , and j . svartvik " a comprehensive grammar of the english language " . as the main subject of " encyclopedium . . . " be study all english verb with non-standard grammatical paradigm , irregular verb be also include . one will find here 1209 irregular verb , include 297 monomorphemic one and 20 verbs-abbreviation . all irregular verb be classify into 86 schema . numerous comment relate to verb form usage be give , all schema be describe in detail . naturally , irregular verb , can't exhaust the subject under consus - deration ! as it turn out , many question relate to non-standard verb in - flexion have be expose by grammarian in an insufficiently severe form , and with numerous gap ; a number of situation have not be describe or those description contain different error and inaccuracy ; the set of rule regulate pronunciation and spell of verb inflexion be non-complete ; the set of exception to the formulate rule do not exist at all or contain only a small part of the correspond verbs-exception . in " encyclopedium . . . " , we formulate an exhaustive set of rule regulate pronunciation and spell of verb inflexion , both for bre and ame , take into account all possible , sometime rather curious , situation . every rule be supply with the correspond set of exception ( if there be any ) ; they be name " ccc " 's ( " closely complete corpora " ) in our book . numerous error and inaccuracy ever meet in relate literature have be correct in " encyclopedium . . . " . * * * * * for information on order please contact the author at : arus @ ilt . kharkov . ua
