Subject: syntax / semantic of gradable adjective

kennedy , christopher ; project the adjective : the syntax and semantic of gradability and comparison ; 0-8153 - 3349 - 8 , cloth ; page 262 , $ 61 ; garland publish ; outstand dissertation in linguistic . this book investigate the core mean and syntactic distribution of gradable adjective : adjective such as long , short , bright and dim , with respect to which object can be order and compare . the central thesis be that gradable adjective should be semantically characterize as measure function : expression that map object onto abstract representation of measurement , or degree . a second major claim be that degree should be formalize as interval on a scale , rather than discrete point , as standardly assume . these proposal be support by a number of empirical argument involve the interpretation of comparative construction in english , include scope phenomenon , incommensurability , and the semantic behavior of antonymous adjective . in addition , the semantic analysis be show to support a straight forward compositional interpretation of syntactic representation in which adjective project extend functional structure head by degree morphology , thus bring the analysis of the adjectival projection in line with current theoretical assumption about the phrase structure and interpretation of the nominal and verbal projection . the proposal be formalize in term of model-theoretic semantics and the principle and parameter syntactic framework . the text include a comprehensive overview of previous approach to the semantic analysis of gradable adjective , as well as an introduction to some of the fundamental question and puzzle involve the syntax and semantics of comparative , and it present new datum which provide insight into the relation between comparative and ellipsis . this book will be of interest to scholar in the area of natural language semantics and the syntax-semantic interface , adjective , comparative construction , vagueness , antonymy , and english grammar in general . e - mail : info @ garland . com
