Subject: workshop on semus - lexical head

* * call for papers * * workshop on semi-lexical heads tilburg university , thursday 20 may and friday 21 may 1999 invite speaker : joseph emond ( university of durham ) hubert haider ( university of salzburg ) elisabeth loebel ( university of cologne ) semi-lexical heads the distinction between lexical / major category , on the one hand , and functional / minor / grammatical category , on the other , be at the heart of present-day grammatical theory , but play an equally central role in theory on language acquisition , code switch , aphasia , etcetera . in the course of time , various diagnostic criterion have be propose which distinguish the one class from the other : e . g . productivity , distribution , lack versus presence of semantic content . although for certain clear-cut case ( e . g . the distinction between noun and determiner ) , this distinction be quite straightforward , there be many lexical item for which it be less easy to decide whether they side with the lexical category or with the functional one . the category p be a well-known case of uncertainty . although it seem less functional in a sense than a determiner , it be more " grammatical " than n , v and a . some people have argue that a distinction should be make within the class of preposition between the lexical one and the grammatical or functional one ( cf . van riemsdijk 1990 ; zwart 1992 ) this gradualness on the lexical-functional " scale " be characteristic of other category as well and be reminiscent of ross 's ( 1972 ; 1973 ) notion of squish , which refer to degree of nouniness ( or verbiness ) of syntactic category . emond ( 1985 ) speak bout grammatical noun , verb , adjective and preposition , and also refer to them as disguise lexical category . another appropriate term would be semi-lexical head , i . e . head which be hybrid in the sense that they display both lexical and functional / grammatical characteristic . what kind of lexical item may possibly be consider semi-lexical ? for the nominal domain , emond ( 1985 ) refer to such item as the pro-form " one " in " the good one " , reflexive " self " ( cf . " self " ) , and " thing " as it occur in " something good " . classifier and quantity-designate nominal in pseudopartitive construction like " three grain of sand " may be consider semi-lexical as well . within the verbal domain , semi-lexical candidate may arguably be : auxiliary verb ( see emond 85 for this claim ) , certain verb feature in verb cluster in germanic verb raise construction , verb in serialization construction , etcetera . within the adjectival domain , one may take such quantifier as " many " , " few " , " much " as instance of semi-lexical adjective . the above be just a brief sketch of potential semi-lexical head . presumably , there be many more . here be some of the more concrete question that may arise in the study of semi-lexical head : v what type of semi-lexical noun , verb , adjective and preposition can be distinguish ? what distinguish them from truly lexical category and in what sense be they different from truly grammatical functor ? is this distinction express in term of their lexical feature-composition , and if so , what feature be involve ? what be their assemble property ; i . e . how do they combine in syntactic structure and how do they project syntactically ? are they involve in idiosyncratic displacement phenomenona , and if so , what feature of the semi-lexical head trigger this ? what be the license function of semi-lexical head ? what make them interpretable at the interface level ? also from a diachronic point of view , the question arise how lexical head develop gradually into semi-lexical one . is there cross-linguistic variation in the range of semi-lexical head and if so , what do this variation reside in ? beside the question of how semi-lexical head behave in the syntactic component , question arise about their behavior in other component : are there morphological process characteristic of semi-lexical head ? as concern the lexicon , the question arise how they be store in the lexicon and what distinguish their lexical entry from that of truly lexical category . abstracts : abstract be invite for 30 minute talk ( with an additional ten minute for discussion ) . abstract should be anonymous , and should be no longer than two page , include reference and example , with margin of at least 1 - inch , font size 11 / 12 . submission be limit to a maximum of one individual and one join abstract per author . please provide 5 anonymous abstract and one camera-ready original contain title , author 's name and affiliation . submission by e-mail or fax can be accept , provide a camera-ready original be receive within one week after the deadline . a separate card should contain the title of the paper , author 's name , affiliation , address , telephone number and e-mail address . we have the intention to publish ( a selection of ) the papers . we expect to be able to partially reimburse you for travel and / or vhotel expense , but precise figure be not available as yet . * * * * * * * * * * * deadline for receipt of abstract : monday 1 february , 1999 . abstract should be send to the follow address : norbert corver grammar model group department of linguistic tilburg university p . o . box 90153 5000 le tilburg the netherland phone : + 31 13 4662773 e - mail : secretariaat . gm . fdl @ kub . nl fax : + 31-13 - 4663110 organize committee : norbert corver & henk van riemsdijk information about accommodation and travel information will be make available at the grammar model web site , which be accessible at : http : / / cwi . kub . nl / ~ fdl / research / gm / conf . htm
