Subject: 7th european nlg workshop

7th european workshop on natural language generation call for papers toulouse ( france ) , may 13-15 1999 this seventh european workshop on natural language generation will focus on all aspect of computational linguistic and industrial application relate to natural language generation . paper relate to theoretical aspect , apply research and ongo project be encourage . natural language generation be the study of a number of model , approach and system , the workshop will include , beside classical topic , scientific domain in which natural language generation play an important role , such as speech , dialogue , multi-medium interface , psycho-linguistic , and theoretical linguistics . relevant application domain include all type of application ( mt , ir and ie , etc . ) in which generation play an important role and where specific technique or model of generation have be develop . the main topic be the follow , without exclude other : - lexical aspect : phonology , morphology , syntax and semantics , - syntactic aspect , - semantic and pragmatic aspect , - speech synthesis and nlg , oral dialogue , - construction of knowledge base for nlg , - application of nlg : mt , summarization , report generation , etc . , - multi-medium generation include graphic , numerical information , and text in various format , etc . , - psycholinguistic aspect of nlg : in speech production , in discourse production and management , in lexicalization , etc . - architecture for nlg , - internet and web application use nlg . multiple submission must be mention , and if the paper be accept at several place , presentation at the workshop will be conditional to the paper be withdraw from these other place . paper should be prepare in latex ( preferably ) or in word ( send rtf file ) , not exceed 4000 word ( about 8 to 10 page long ) , include reference . more detail about format submission will be give soon on the workshop web site . paper must relate original , unpublish work . work in progress can also be submit . paper must include the author ' name , full address and e-mail . they will be review anonymously . therefore , a title page must come separately , with the title of the paper , the abstract , the author ' name and address , and , if appropriate , the mention of multiple submission ( and where the paper have be submit ) . no indication of the author ' identity must appear in the text of the paper . deadline : january 25th submission of papers by e-mail march 10th notification of acceptance / rejection april 15th final paper due ( paper copy ) may 13-15 workshop paper and all correspondence should be send to stdizier @ irit . fr programme committee : christy doran wolfgang hoeppner helmut horacek eduard hovy guy lapalme kathy mccoy david mcdonald kathy mckeown chri mellish cecile pari patrick saint - dizier manfr stede michael zock local organization information : web site ( forthcome ) : http : / / www . irit . fr / manifs / manif . html look for : ewnlg ' 99 . the meet will be hold in toulouse downtown , in the holiday inn hotel , on the famous ` place du capitole ' , in the heart of the old town . toulouse have an international airport , with many national and european destination . there be many place worth visit in the city , all within about 10 minute walk distance ( museum , old roman - style church , 16th - 17th century private house with inner yard , etc . ) . fee should be around 750 french franc ( about 130 us $ ) , for 2 day , include two lunch , the break and the proceedings . for three day , fee will be about 1000f . block of room will be reserve in the hotel meet ( 530f per room per day , incl . buffet breakfast ) and in other , cheaper , hotel around at preferential rate .
