Subject: head - drive phrase structure grammar

first call for papers hpsg-99 6th international conference on head - drive phrase structure grammar university of edinburgh august 4 - 6 , 1999 the 6th international conference on hpsg will be hold at the university of edinburgh , scotland , on august 4th to 6th 1999 , host by the human communication research centre and the department of linguistic . abstract be solicit for 20 - minute presentation ( follow by 10 minute of discussion ) which address linguistic , foundational , or computational issue relate to the framework of head - drive phrase structure grammar . special session and invited speakers the conference will feature a special session on grammatical interfaces , explore the interaction of part of the sign that encode different type of grammatical information , e . g . syntax / morphology , semantics / syntax , phonology / syntax , etc . this session will have a number of invite speaker , as well as submit papers . the second call for papers will provide further detail about the invite speaker . submission for the session should be make in the same way as for the main session , but mark ' grammatical interface ' . submission details we invite e-mail submission of abstract for 30 - minute papers ( include question and comment ) . a submission should consist of two part : - an information sheet ( in ascius ) , contain the name of the author ( s ) , affiliation ( s ) , e-mail and postal address ( e ) and a title ; - an abstract , consist of a description of not more than 5 page ( include figure and reference ) . abstract may be either in plain ascii or in ( unix-compatible encode ) postscript , pdf , or dvi . abstract can be send to hpsg99 @ cogscus . ed . ac . uk abstract submission deadline february 15th 1999 notification of acceptance april 18th 1999 publication pend final approval by the publisher , a select number of papers will be publish as a volume of the csli - series " study in constraint - base lexicalism " , with series editor andrea kathol , jean - pierre koenig and sbe mchombo . there will be a separate round of submission and review for this volume after the conference . it be also hop that a volume of papers on the topic of the special session will be publish by oxford university press . programme committee philip miller ( lille , chair ) ronnie cann ( edinburgh , chair ) claire grover ( edinburgh , local arrangement ) bob borsley stephen mueller jong bok , kim adam przepiorkowskus dimitra kolliakou enric vallduvus marie labelle frank van eynde bob levine shuly wintner paolum monachesus further information web site for hpsg-99 : http : / / www . cogscus . ed . ac . uk / ~ hpsg99 / for further enquiry mail : hpsg99 @ cogscus . ed . ac . uk
