Subject: language acquisition and language breakdown

call for papers : language acquisition and language breakdown 1st language aquisition , sli & aphasic may 28-29 , 1999 utrecht university uil ots utrecht , the netherland invite speaker harald clahsen ( university of essex ) stephen crain ( university of maryland , college park ) yosef grodzinsky ( tel aviv university ) herman kolk ( university of nijmegen ) christer platzack ( lund university ) call for papers over the last twenty year , a significant amount of research have be carry out in the field of language acquisition and language impairment . with regard to the former , empirical and theoretical research project have attempt to characterize child 's linguistic competence at various stage , and the development toward adult competence . in the field of language impairment , researcher have attempt to characterize the speech production and comprehension capacity of patient with specific linguistic disorder ( aphasic patient . ) the main goal of this research be to provide a picture of what part of the human language capacity be lose as a result of specific brain damage , and to characterize the patient ' linguistic knowledge or process limitation in term of a contemporary linguistic theory . a similar approach be characteristic of recent study of child with specific language impairment ( sli ) . the question in this research be how to characterize , in linguistic term , the deficit exhibit by this population . a comparison between the linguistic capacity of these population have be a recurrent theme in many theoretical and experimental study . are there interest similarity between normally develop child , sli child and aphasic ? can the comparison between these population tell researcher anything new about language acquisition or language breakdown ? what exactly be lose in aphasia - the knowledge of language or the capacity to implement this knowledge ? do normally develop child and sli child poss the relevant knowledge but be they unable to implement it ? if so , why ? or be their linguistic system different from the adult system ? what can the difference between impair and unimpair language development be attribute to ? the language acquisition and language breakdown conference , organize by the utrecht institute of linguistic in the framework of its language in use research program aim at bring together researcher whose work focus on the comparison of these population . paper be invite for 30 - minute presentation ( plus 10 min for discussion ) . paper must focus on the comparison between the language capacity of any two or three of these population : normally develop child , sli child , and people with aphasia . please send four copy of a two page anonymous abstract ( single space , include example and reference ) and one copy with your name and affiliation to : language acquisition and language breakdown utrecht university uil ots tran 10 nl-3512 jk utrecht the netherland please include also a card with your name ( s ) , affiliation ( s ) , the title of your abstract , your e-mail ( s ) , mail address and telephone number ( s ) . all material must be receive by february 1 , 1999 . decision regard acceptance / rejection will be announce by march 10 , 1999 . there be a possibility that student whose papers be accept for presentation will be partially reimburse for their travel expense .
