Subject: sound pattern of spontaneous speech

sposs sound pattern of spontaneous speech : production and perception aix en provence , france , 24-25 - 26 september 1998 the european speech communication association ( esca ) have identify the area of sound pattern of spontaneous speech as an important area of current research . an esca workshop be be organise in aix en provence with this focus . contribution should describe and explain spontaneous speech process and their perception at the word , phrase and sentence level in a wide variety of language . workshop theme : dure the last decade , description of spontaneous speech mainly focus on the reduction and assimilation of speech segment to adjacent segment . reduction and assimilatory process of spontaneous speech be the product of gesture economy and physical constraint . they be also constrain by the phonetic , phonological , and prosodic specificity of language and dialect . therefore , this workshop be aim at contribute to the description and the understand of the production and perception of spontaneous speech process in various language . the workshop will be centre around the follow topic : - acoustic and articulatory analysis of spontaneous-speech process - prosodic information and spontaneous-speech process - perception of reduction and assimilatory process - model format of the workshop : this will be an international workshop within a limit number of active participant , i . e . priority will be give to person with accept papers . each session will be introduce by a tutorial presentation by an invite expert . most papers will be present in plenary session with time for demonstration and discussion . other papers will be present in poster session follow by plenary discussion . workshop site : sposs will take place in a conference centre locate in the area of aix en provence in ten minute ` s drive from aix en provence . bus transportation to and from the centre will be provide every day . detail logistic information will be distribute to all register participant . proceeding and language : the contribution to the workshop will be publish in a workshop proceeding which will be available to participant at the time of the workshop . as the new french law ( lous toubon ) require , they will include french abstract . the official language of the workshop will be english and french . registration fee : the fee for the workshop , include proceedings , lunch , bus tranportation to and from the conference centre and the sposs reception be 1700 ff , with a 300 ff reduction for esca member . student with a certificate of their status will pay 750 ff with a 100 ff reduction for esca student member . registration for non - esca member include a complementary membership for 1998 . important date : march 31 , 1998 : preliminary registration and deadline for submission of title and abstract . may 15 , 1998 : notification of acceptance , imstruction for author , information on accomodation . september 1 , 1998 : imperative deadline for early registration and for 4 page camera-ready paper . september 10 , 1998 : preliminary program e-mail . september 24-25 - 26 : worshop . european speech communication association ( esca ) : esca be a non-profit organisation for promote speech communication science and technology in a european context . a limit number of grant for participation be available . more information be available though : e-mail : esca @ icp . inpg . fr hrrp : / / ophale . icp . inpg . fr / esca / international scientific committee : andrew butcher ( aust ) olle engstrand ( sw ) wolfgang hess ( ger ) klaus kohler ( ger ) florien koopman - van beinum ( ned ) bjorn lindblom ( sw ) joaquim llisterrus ( sp ) franci nolan ( uk ) john ohalum ( usa ) loui pol ( ned ) willy serniclae ( bel ) jacqueline vaissiere ( fr ) organise committee : danielle duez , lpl bernard teston , lpl marie - helene casanova-rossi , lpl annie rival , lpl martin brousseau , lpl worshop secretariat : for all correspondence concern the workshop , please use the follow address : sposs att . danielle duez laboratoire parole et langage , cnrs esa-6057 universite de provence 29 , avenue robert shuman 13621 aix en provence france . phone : + 33 4 42 95 36 23 fax : + 33 4 42 59 50 96 e-mail : sposs @ lpl . univ-aix . fr furteher information will only be send to ( preliminary ) registerd participant . update information will also be available on : http : / / www . lpl . univ-aix . fr .
