Subject: console 7 : cfp

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - console 7 - call for paper - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - the seventh meet of the student organisation of linguistic in europe ( console ) will be hold at the university of bergen , norway , from 9 to 11 december 1998 . sole aim at provide student of generative linguistics with a possibility of gain international experience and a publication forum of their own . furthermore , sole strive to enhance contact and cooperation between student of generative linguistics in europe and around the world . paper be solicit from student in the field of generative linguistics , more specifically in , but not limit to , phonology , morphology , semantics , sign language , language acquisition and syntax . submission may be send either by regular mail or e-mail . if regular mail be use , please send five copy , of which four should be anonymous and one should contain your name , affiliation , address and e-mail address . abstract should be set in at least 10 point and must not exceed two page , include reference , diagram , and example . please send abstract to : console 7 department of linguistic and comparative literature section for linguistic study sydnesplass 7 n-5007 bergen norway e - mail submission must be text only ( ascii format ) . abstract submit in this way should not exceed 1300 word , include reference , diagram , and example , and they may be send to : abstract @ babel . ling . uib . no the deadline for submission be 1 august , 1998 ( regardless of mode of submission ) . abstract receive after 1 august will not be consider . submission by fax will not be accept . question regard submission and the conference in general can be address to the local organiser at the follow e-mail address or fax number : e - mail : console7 @ babel . ling . uib . no fax : + 47-55 58 93 54 or to the sole board at the follow e-mail address : sole @ rullet . leidenuniv . nl information regard the conference can be find at the follow website : http : / / www . ling . uib . no / console - 7 local organiser : sole board : oystein alexander vangsn michael redford dagmar bendt tina cambier - langeveld inger marie berntzen aniko liptak torodd kinn martha thune
