Subject: ellipsis in conjunction

call for papers , focus group , zas , berlin , oct . 2 - 3 , 1998 workshop on ellipsis in conjunction in view of the grow interest in conjunction ellipsis this workshop be an attempt to promote the communication and bridge the gap between different approach within the framework of generative syntax . the workshop will concentrate on the follow issue : ( 1 ) the structure of a conjunction construction . is the base-generate structure of a coordinate construction a double-head structure ( william 1994 ) , or do it have the second conjunct right-adjoin to the first conjunct ( reinhart 1991 ) , or be it a projection of a conjunction word ( &p ) ( munn1987 ) , or something else ? ( 2 ) the possible category to be conjoin . must a conjunct be a clause or an extend projection ( exclude smaller xp - type ) ? must a conjunct be an xp ( exclude head and x ' ) ? and how be ' asymmetrical coordination ' analyze if only ' like ' category can be conjoin ? ( 3 ) the analysis of ellipsis and gap construction . the verb gap construction , for instance , have be analyze as rightward np movement follow by an identical constituent deletion ( jayaseelan 1990 ) , across - the - board verb movement ( johnson 1996 ) , and deletion license in lf ( wilder 1997 ) . in addition , it remains to be show how to account for the relationship between vp ellipsis , pseudogap and gap . furthermore , a general study of sluice be require to cover wh in-situ language where sluce do not alternate with an overt movement to eliminate strong feature of a wh question ( lasnik 1997 ) . ( 4 ) the analysis of similarity and difference among various type of reduction . how and why do coordinative , comparative , and exception conjunction ellipsis share property and differ from each other syntactically , and / or semantically ? are the property of forwad deletion and backward deletion relate to lf and pf respectively , as claim by wilder ( 1997 ) ? ( 5 ) the constraint on the ellipsis construction . what be the language-specific property that may interact with the representation of conjunction ellipsis ? are there any ellipsis or gap rule in ug ? ( 6 ) the connection between conjunction ellipsis and information structure . to what extent be such ellipsis determine by information structural aspect like focus background structure ? ( 7 ) study of conjunction ellipsis of a greater variety of language . invite speaker : danny fox tilman hoehle kyle johnson jason merchant alan munn craig thiersch chri wilder organizer : kerstin schwabe , niina zhang , horst - dieter gasde , and andre meinunger the deadline for receipt of abstract be july 1 , 1998 . please send your abstract ( 1 a4 / letter - size max ) to : dr . niina zhang zas jaegerstr . 10-11 10117 berlin germany tel : 49-30 - 20192572 fax : 49-30 - 20192402 email : ellipsis @ za . gwz-berlin . de we accept abstract by fax , email , as well as regular mail . the selection of the abstract for presentation will be finish by the end of august . zentrum fur allgemeine sprachwissenschaft ( zas ) http : / / www . za . gwz-berlin . de
