Subject: icslp abstract due 1 may 98

second call for papers for icslp ' 98 the 5th international conference on spoken language processing sydney convention & exhibition centre darl harbour , sydney australium 30th november 1998 - - 4th december 1998 host by the australian speech science & technology association inc . ( incorporate the 7th australian speech science & technology conference ) conference url http : / / cslab . anu . edu . au / icslp98 note : note : note : note : friday 1st may , 1998 paper summary / abstract due submission procedure submission be invite in any of the follow technical topic area . a . human speech production , acoustic - phonetic and articulatory model b . human speech perception c . language acquisition : first and second language d . spoken language and dialogue model ; dialogue system e . isolate word recognition f . large vocabulary continuous speech recognition g . utterance verification and word spot h . speaker adaptation and normalisation in speech recognition i . speaker and language recognition ; dialect and speak style j . multilingual perception and recognition k . signal process , speech analysis and feature extraction l . robust speech process in adverse environment m . hidden markov model technique n . artificial neural network , fuzzy and evolutionary algorithm o . spoken language understand system p . text - to - speech synthesis q . prosody and emotion ; focus , stress and accent r . speech code s . spoken language generation system ; concept - to - speech t . spoken language translation system u . analysis of speech and hear disorder v . speech process for the speech - impair and hear - impair w . segmentation , label and speech corpora x . speech technology application and human - machine interface y . spoken language process and multimodality z . other area of spoken language process format of submission acceptance of papers for presentation at the conference will be on the basis of review summary . you should submit a summary of your paper comprise approximately 500 word . at the top of the page , please specify the follow correspond author contact detail : full name full postal mail address email address fax number phone number propose paper detail : paper title author list topic id ( a - z ) four additional keyword presentation preference ( oral , poster , student day ) the topic id should be a single category from the topic list specify as an alphabetic letter ; if your submission fall within the broad area of speak language process but be not explicitly represent in the topic list , please use the z category . the four additional keyword be request in order to assist the programme committee in assign reviewer . means of submission ( of summary / abstract ) electronic submission of summary vium the world wide web be prefer : a summary submission form be available at http : / / cslab . anu . edu . au / icslp98 . alternatively , a pro-forma for email submission can be obtain from this url or by email " icslp98 @ tourhost . com . au " ; email submission should be send to " icslp98 @ one . net . au " . if electronic submission be not possible , postal submission ( 4 copy ) to the icslp ' 98 secretariat address specify below will be accept provide that they adhere to the above format . please do not use fax . restrictions on submissions ( of summary / abstract ) please note that only ascii summary write in english will be accept : do not include any attachment , graphic , or embed format command . given the large number of submission we expect to receive , anything that cannot be print directly will be reject without consideration . acknowledgement of receipt you should receive an acknowledgement of receipt within 72 hour of electronically submit your summary . if this do not happen , then you should resend your submission by email to " icslp98 @ one . net . au " with the word resubmission at the begin of the subject line . if an acknowledgement be still not forthcome , an email problem should be assume , and the summary submit by fax . please do not resubmit or send by fax for any other reason than lack of acknowledgement from the conference . conditions of acceptance all papers must be present in english by one of the list author ; that author will be require to register no later than the full-paper submission date . summary will not be accept after the submission date . please note : the deadline of may 1st for receipt of submission be firm . the tight schedule of our review process means that late submission cannot be accept . student day submissions student wish to submit papers for the sst student day should submit summary as above . these submission will be separately review and publish under the banner of the 7th australian speech science & technology conference and will also be include on the cdrom contain the icslp ' 98 proceedings . submission addresses world wide web : vium " http : / / cslab . anu . edu . au / icslp98 e - mail submission : icslp98 @ one . net . au postal : icslp ' 98 secretariat , gpo box 128 , sydney nsw 2001 , australium technical query : robert dale ( rdale @ mpce . mq . edu . au ) general information : " icslp98 @ tourhost . com . au " conference secretariat tour host conference & exhibition organiser gpo box 128 sydney nsw 2001 , australium important dates friday 1st may , 1998 paper summary due for review friday 26th june , 1998 acceptance notification friday 21st august , 1998 deadline for full-paper submission conference coordinating committee peter blamey ( financial ) university of melbourne bruce millar ( technical ) australian national university julie vonwiller ( organisation ) university of sydney / appen technical programme committee robert dale ( chair ) microsoft research institute roberto tognerus ( deputy chair ) university of western australium deni burnham university of new south wale michael wagner university of canberra sst student day committee franz clermont ( co - chair ) university of new south wale michael barlow ( co - chair ) university of new south wale ingrid ahmer university of south australium robin king university of south australium parham mokhtarus university of new south wale international advisory board souguil j . m . ann , seoul national university , korea jen p . blauert , ruhr - universitaet , germany michael brooke , university of bath , unite kingdom timothy bunnell , university of delaware , usa anne cutler , max - planck - institute for psycholinguistic , netherland hiroya fujisakus , science university of tokyo , japan julium hirschberg , at&t bell laboratory , usa bjorn granstrom , royal institute of technology , sweden lin - shan lee , national taiwan university , taiwan roger moore , defence research authority , unite kingdom john j . ohalum , university of californium , berkeley , usa loui c . w . pol , university of amsterdam , netherland christel sorin , centre nationale d ' etude de telecommunication , france yoh ' ichus tohkura , atr human information process laboratory , japan jialu zhang , academium sinica , china australian consultative committee yiannus attikiouzel , university of western australium robert bogner , university of adelaide john clark , university of western sydney mary o'kane , university of adelaide roger wale , university of melbourne and representative of financial sponsor . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - karen croot school of communication science & disorder faculty of health science , university of sydney po box 170 lidcombe nsw australia 2141 phone : 2 9351-9694 ( within australium ) , + 61 2 9351-9694 ( international ) . facsimile : 2 9351-9977
