Subject: teach linguistic ( grammar )

* * * call for paper * * * * * * call for paper * * * " teach linguistic " symposium on teaching grammar in conjunction with the twenty - second annual conference on the teach of foreign language and literature . youngstown state university youngstown , ohio , october 24 , 1998 plenary speaker : * robert dekeyser , university of pittsburgh , linguistic dept . dr . dekeyser will speak on " focus on form " proposal on topic relate to the teach of grammar in first , second and foreign language be welcome . college and university faculty , high school teacher , and graduate student be invite to submit proposal . possible area of focus may include , but be not limit to : pedagogical grammar , history of grammatical teach , normatism / prescriptivism , pro and con of formal instruction , and all aspect of grammatical teach , such as method , social aspect , audience , situation of teach ( l1 , l2 , fl ) , goal and objective , etc . special attention will be give to papers deal with the position and role of grammatical instruction within the curriculum . * all disciplinary approach be welcome , such as language art teach ; second language acquisition : theory , research and practice ; pedagogical approach and classroom strategy ; technique and material ; innovation in media technology ; test and assessment ; ethnographic study . this be not , however , a symposium on universal grammar . * abstract : presentation should be 30 minute long , include time for question . send three copy of a one - page , double space abstract to the symposium committee ( address below ) by june 1 , 1998 . e - mail submission ( ascii only , no attachment ) be ok . include contact information on a cover sheet attach to the abstract . the abstract should contain no information that identify the presenter . notification will be mail no later than july 1 , 1998 . * registration : all participant , include presenter , be require to register to the conference , however , a lower fee for the symposium day alone will be available . registration material will be mail in early august 1998 . all accept presenter will receive the conference registration mailing . those interest in attend , but not present need only request to be put on the mail list . graduate student need crash space or with financial problem should mention this fact in the cover sheet . * the conference on the teach of foreign language and literature will feature two plenary speaker : helena curtain ( u . of wisconsin ) who will speak on fles and david d . herren ( middlebury college ) who will speak on call . beside the plenary speaker the conference will feature over thirty presentation and workshop on various aspect of teach foreign language and literature . * abstract and request for information about the teach grammar symposium should be send to : salvatore attardo & steven brown english department , debartolo hall 202 youngstown state university youngstown oh 44555 usa sattardo @ cc . ysu . edu srbrown @ cc . ysu . edu
