Subject: new reflection on grammaticalization

universitat potsdam am neuen palai 10 , 14469 potsdam pd dr . ilse wischer institut fur anglistik / amerikanistik universitat potsdam , postfach 601553 , 14415 potsdam sekr . : ( + 49 ) 0331-977 - 2524 tel . : ( + 49 ) 0331-977 - 2533 fax : ( + 49 ) 0331-977 - 2069 e-mail : wischer @ rz . uni-potsdam . de call for paper april 1998 new reflection on grammaticalization an international symposium at potsdam university 17-19 june 1999 since meillet 's first mention of the term grammaticalization in 1912 several generation of scholar have contribute to a better understand of this process of linguistic change . recent study be closely connect with the name of paul hopper and elizabeth traugott . further major impulse come from a number of work in cologne , from an international symposium at the university of oregon at eugene in 1988 , or from empirical research base on computer corpus edit in a collective volume by mattus rissanen et al . numerous publication and conference contribution in the last ten year have reveal a grow interest in the theory of grammaticalization . people have work on several topic reach from theoretical investigation on its status with respect to various theory of grammar up to its practical application to linguistic phenomenon in many language of the world . this have lead , on the one hand , to new insight and a deeper understand , it have also reveal , however , new question that call for an answer and require further research . the aim of this symposium be to bring together scholar who be work in this area to present their finding and discuss such topic as e . g . whether there be two different type of grammaticalization , one on the propositional level and another one on the discourse level , whether there be convince example of the reversability of grammaticalization , what kind of relationship hold between grammaticalization and lexicalization , or which internal and external factor can accelerate or retard grammaticalization . paper be invite on all aspect relate to grammaticalization in its synchronic or diachronic perspective , with respect to theoretical reflection or practical finding . study base on linguistic phenomenon in english be particularly welcome . academic programme : open lecture : christian lehmann , university of bielefeld , germany plenary lecture ( so far ) : joan bybee , university of new mexico , unite state talmy givn , university of oregon , unite state bernd heine , university of cologne , germany ekkehard knig , free university berlin , germany social programme : there will be a conference dinner , a guide tour through the city of potsdam include a visit of one of its famous castle , a visit of the potsdam film studio or a boat tour on the havel . detail about the social programme will be give in the 2nd circular . accomodation : accomodation will be in hotel in town at conference rate . a limit number of moderately price room will be available in the guest house of the university . you will have to book the room on your own , mention your participation in the symposium . address will be give in the 2nd circular . about the city of potsdam and potsdam university : in 1993 brandenburg s capital celebrate the 1000th anniversary of its found . potsdam 's distinctive appearance begin to emerge when the town become the residence of prussian royalty . to this day the capital attract many visitor . the grounds of the three royal park , the palace of san soucus and the new palace , schinkel 's charlottenhof , an architectural gem , the cecilienhof palace as well as numerous church and italianate villa continue to charm visitor today . caf , restaurant , museum and galery be an integral part of the capital 's unique cityscape . among 140 , 0 potsdamer , there be 11 , 0 university student , most of whom live in hall of residence on the outskirts of town . potsdam 's location could not be more ideal for leisure time activity : it be surround by forest , lake and river and a short commuter train ride take you to the nation 's nearby capital , berlin . since the last century , potsdam have be a centre for research in the natural science . today potsdam be again the home of respect research institute . for a few year now it have also be a university town . the university of potsdam be found on 15 july 1991 . locate on three campus - am neuen palai , golm and potsdam - babelsberg - the university absorb most of the staff of brandenburg state college ( previously the potsdam college of education ) and a few member of the staff of the college of law and administration ( previously the academy of government and law of the gdr , dissolve in 1990 )
