Subject: kornfilt : turkish

jaklin kornfilt ( 1997 ) , turkish . london and new york : routledge . xxxus + 575 pp . 110 , us $ 180 . review by steve seegmiller , montclair state university . jaklin kornfilt 's grammar of turkish ( hereafter refer to as turkish ) be the first new , comprehensive grammar of this language to be publish in english in more than two decade . as such , its appearance be a significant event , especially since its author be a well know and respect authority on turkish . this be the latest title in the descriptive grammar series , edit by bernard comrie and publish by routledge . the goal of the work in this series be different from those of most grammar : the descriptive grammar be intend for linguist rather than general user . all of the grammar in the series address the same issue in a uniform format so that a give feature may be easily compare across language , and they contain information of a sort that be often absent from more traditional grammar . toward the end of the review i will comment briefly on the potential utility of this grammar for non-linguist , but for the most part i will focus on usefulness of the grammar for linguist . the descriptive grammar series now include nearly 30 title . accord to the editorial preface , the series give preference to language for which comprehensive description be not presently available ( iv ) . the aim of the series be to provide information to linguist who be interest in language typology , language universal , and comparative grammar , employ a terminology and a notation that will make the information accessible to linguist regardless of their particular specialization or orientation . author of the grammar in the series be expect to organize their description as answer to a series of question ( originally publish in lingua vol . 42 , no . 1 , 1977 ) . turkish contain over 600 page , include the prefatory material , the table of content , and the bibliography . the grammatical description alone amount to just over 550 page . it be thus roughly twice as long as lewi ( 1967 ) and about 100 page longer than underhill ( 1976 ) . the book contain five chapter of widely vary length . chapter 1 ( syntax ) contain 211 page , chapter 2 ( morphology ) 270 page , chapter 3 ( phonology ) 32 page , chapter 4 ideophone and interjection ) just 3 page , and chapter 5 ( lexicon ) 16 page . thus approximately 90 per cent of the book be devote to morphology and syntax . furthermore , a good deal of the information in the morphology chapter deal with syntactic matter , give the book an especially heavy bias toward syntax . . this distribution of information no doubt reflect both the interest of the author and the current emphasis of typological research . the chapter on phonology and the lexicon be both very well do and very useful ( more on this below ) , but they do not address all of the issue that may be of interest to a phonologist or a lexical semanticist . a notable feature of the book be the extensive and detail table of content . it be eleven page long and , use in conjunction with the fourteen-page index , provide easy access to the an extensive body of information about turkish . how well do turkish accomplish its goal ? i think it handle syntax and morphology marvelously well , phonology and the lexicon adequately , and ideophone and interjection in a cursory fashion . the chapter on syntax and morphology provide the best , most detail description of these part of the language available . the analysis be up to date and insightful , and kornfilt have do a superb job of bring clarity to some of the most difficult part of the language . in concept and terminology , the description straddle the line between generative and traditional or non-generative approach . for instance , kornfilt use the term ' possessive adjective ' ( 105 ) and 'd emonstrative adjective ( 106 ) rather than the more usual ' possessive ' and 'd emonstrative . ' similarly , the description be state in term of surface phenomenon and grammatical construction and not in any recognizable theoretical framework . this be probably the right choice , give the diverse background of the probable user of the grammar . the range of coverage be broad and thorough . kornfilt deal with sentence type , both simple and complex ; with negation and question ; with grammatical category and phrase type ; and with most of the other grammatical phenomenon that may interest linguist . the morphology chapter contain information not just on inflection and derivation , but also on the use of the various morphological form . cross - reference be extensive , make it easy for the reader to find all of the relevant information on a topic even if it be not find in the same section of the book . this approach of interrelate syntax and morphology be very useful and allow kornfilt to clarify some of the cloudy area of turkish grammar . perhap most notable be her treatment of the participial and nominal system and their relation to subordination ( pp . 323-413 and at various place in chapter 1 ) . finite subordination be rare in turkish . a far more frequent pattern of subordination involve the use of a participial or nominalize verbal stem . the complexity of the system be mind-boggle to student of the language , but kornfilt 's description make it coherent and intelligible . her treatment of other aspect of turkish morphology and syntax be equally well do . a very useful feature of turkish be the inclusion of information about what do * not * occur in the language . this be often essential information for linguist ( whether study typology , syntax , or morphology ) and be rarely include in more traditional grammar . thus we find on page 104 the statement that postpostition govern only one case ( with the lone exception of ' kadar ' ) . in lewi ( 1967 ) , this information can be infer from the discussion of case on page 85-95 , but it be not so easy to find and not so categorically state . there be many similar example , especially in the syntax chapter . the chapter on phonology be short , clear , and precise , but it do not contain the amount of detail find in the syntax and morphology chapter . while the information present will be adequate for many purpose , phonologist will no doubt wish for more elaborate discussion of issue like vowel harmony , stress assignment , and phonological ( or morphophonemic ) alternation . i find one omission in this chapter . on page 491 , the final devoice rule be describe as apply to syllable-final plosive and affricate , yet on page 487 there be example of final devoice of liquid as well , describe as be standard but not universal . a cross-reference would have be useful here . for the most part , transcription in the phonology chapter follow the ipa norm . one exception , though , be the transcription of palatalize consonant by means of a comma rather than a raise j . ' while this may have be do for typographical reason , it may confuse a casual user . chapter 4 , ideophone and interjection , be only 3 page long and provide only the briefest commentary on these phenomenon . while many linguist ( myself include ) will not mind the short shrift give to these topic , some will no doubt be disappoint that the list of ideophone occupy less than a page and a half . chapter 5 , lexicon , be a short but interest sample of the lexicon of turkish . the chapter contain list of word organize by semantic field . these include kinship terminology , color term , body part , and cook terminology . also include be a list of just over 200 item of " basic vocabulary , " which seem to correspond to the so-cal swadesh list . linguist interest in historical linguistics and language classification will be grateful to find this set of word conveniently collect together . sett aside some minor qualification , as a reference work on turkish for linguist , turkish have no equal . it be more comprehensive , more up to date , and more effectively organize than any other description of the language . the method of organization , as well as the detail table of content and the index , make a wealth of information available almost instantaneously . it be , simply put , an admirable reference work on turkish for linguist . the same can not be say about the utility of turkish for non-linguist . there be two main reason why the book will not be accessible to non-linguistic audience . first , kornfilt assume familiarity with linguistic terminology . in the very first paragraph on page 1 , for example , she use the term ' nominalize clause ' and ' constituent clause , ' neither of which be likely to be familiar to non-linguist . second , turkish presuppose an interest in and a knowledge of certain linguistic question . kornfilt have little to say , for example , about question of stylistic variation , formal versus colloquial speech , or any of a range of topic that the typical student or scholar of turkish may be interest in . this be not really a criticism , since the descriptive grammar series have a well define audience that exclude non-linguist . nevertheless , it be unfortunate that the grammar will not be useful to a wider audience . it will supplement but will not replace lewi ( 1976 ) and underhill ( 1976 ) . i have just two complaint about turkish . first , there be a relatively large number of error and inconsistency . most be minor and consist of miss ' - s 's on verb , use ' of ' for ' or , ' etc . , but some will cause confusion . on page 27 , for example , turkish be describe as a 's ubject-verb - object language . ' ( it be actually s - o - v . ) a sentence on page 30 , which address the of question whether pied-pip of postposition be obligatory , leave the reader unsure of the answer . there be also some contradiction . on page 142 , the claim be make that the reflexive can never occur in subject position , but on page 305 we learn that the reflexive can occur as an honorific subject and on page 542 three reference be give to work that discuss reflexive subject in subordinate clause . other inconsistency be find in the bibliography , where some turkish title be translate into english and other be not . the author be aware of some of the error and have prepare an addendum which contain a short list of erratum , but many of the error that i find be not include . the addendum be available free of charge from the author or the publisher . my other complaint concern the cost of turkish . at us $ 180 , the grammar be unlikely to find its way into many private library . this be unfortunate ; since the book be so useful , linguist interest in turkish will want to have it close at hand . references lewi , g . l . ( 1967 ) , turkish grammar . oxford : oxford university press . underhill , robert ( 1976 ) , turkish grammar . cambridge , ma , and london : mit press . steve seegmiller be interest universal and comparative grammar . he have be work on turkish and the other turkic language for many year , and publish the first grammar in english of the turkic language karachay . he be presently at work on a comparative syntax of english and japanese . steve seegmiller linguistic department montclair state university upper montclair , nj 3619 u . s . a . e - mail : seegmillerm @ alpha . montclair . edu
