Subject: translation

translation into the second language stuart campbell paper 0 582 30188 2 224 page 1998 apply linguistic and language study sery longman the dynamics of immigration , international commerce and the postcolonial world make it inevitable that much translation be do into a second language , despite the prevail wisdom that translator should only work into their mother tongue . this book be the first study to explore the phenomenon of translation into a second language in a way that will interest apply linguist , translator and translation teacher , and esol teacher work with advance level student . rather than see translation into a second language as deficient output , this study adopt an interlanguage framework to consider l2 translation as the product of develop competence ; learn to translate be see as a special variety of second language acquisition . through carefully work case study , separate component of translation competence be identify , among them the ability to create stylistically authentic text in english , the ability to monitor and edit output , and the psychological attitude that the translator bring to the task . while the case study mainly deal with arabic speaker undergo translator train in australium , the conclusion will have implication for translation into a second language , especially english , around the world . ' translation into the second language ' be firmly ground in empirical research , and in this regard it serve as a stimulus and a methodological guide for further research . it will be a valuable addition for advance undergraduate and postgraduate student of apply linguistics , translation theory , bilingualism and second language acquisition as well as those involve in teach or practise translation at a professional level . stuart campbell associate professor in language study , and director of the language acquisition research centre at the university of western sydney macarthur . further information on the book publish in this series , and the table of contents for this title can be view at the longman linguistic on-line catalogue at : http : / / www . awl-he . com / linguistics for a complete list of our world-wide office , please click below : http : / / www . awl-he . com / office available for review
