Subject: call : nystesol apply linguistic winter conference

first call for proposal ( please forward to interest list and individual ) 21st annual nystesol apply linguistic winter conference lehman college / cuny bronx , ny saturday , january 23rd , 1999 esol standards : achievements , assessments - - - - - - - keynote speaker : eric nadelstern of the international h . s . at laguardium community college , queen will talk on " performance - base assessment standard for esol student and their teacher . " - - - - - - - proposal due : * * * wed . sept . 23 * * * mail to ms . bhar arsoy , proposal chair fort george station , ps box 251 new york , ny 10040 general suggest topic * academic achievement of esol student in language learn and other content area * articulation effort across grade or level * standard for admission , retention , promotion , and graduation of esol student and their impact at all level of education * assessment practice , model , and instrument for esol student in language learn and other content area : analysis , innovation , and critique * esol teacher education : standard for entrance , retention , promotion , and graduation * using technology to support and assess achievement * achieve and assess progmatic and sociolinguistic development instruction for proposal submission : please follow exactly ! individual papers , workshop , and publisher demonstration be allote 45 minute ( publisher and other commercial presentera be require to pay the exhibitor 's fee ) panel session ( several speaker - - one theme ) can be schedule as either one 45 minute session or one 1 1 / 2 hour session . all presenter must register for the conference . while all presentation will be consider , those which deal directly with the topic will be give preference . 1 . submit 8 copy of a summary of your proposal , maximum length 1 page double spaced . neither your name nor affiliation should appear anywhere on these 8 copy . however , in the upper leave hand corner of each copy , you should give the follow information : ( 1 ) title , ( 2 ) type of presentation ( paper , workshop , publisher , or panel ) ; ( 3 ) length ( 45 min . or 1 1 / 2 hour ) ; ( 4 ) intend audience ( s ) ( prek , elementary , secondary , adult , higher ed , bilingual , mainstream , teacher educator , material / curriculum developer , researcher ) ; and ( 5 ) av equipment need 2 . on a 9th copy ( identical to the copy in # 1 ) , in the upper-right hand corner , place your name , affiliation , mail address , phone , fax & e-mail , and time you will not be available to present on january 23 ( a . m . or p . m , ) 3 . in addition , submit a 50 word ( max ) abstact of your presentation to appear in the conference program . include the name ( s ) of presenter ( s ) , affiliation ( s ) , title and type of presnation , length , and intend audience ( s ) . 4 . absolutely no e-mail or fax accept . snail mair only . please ensure that your proposal packet reach the proposal chair no later than wed . . sept . 23 , 1998 . question should be address to dr . joye smith , alsig chair 718 960 7242 5 . some presentation submit may look promiss , but the summary and title be occasionally unclear , unattractive to the intend audience or inconsistent with one another . please make every effort to create clear , well-written , engage , and appropriate title and summary . please forward this message to interested lists or individuals michael newman assistant professor of apply linguistic dept . of linguistic and communication disorder queen college / cuny flush , ny 11367
