Subject: foreign language culture

conference organizer : faculty of foreign language laboratory of communicative teach through cultural interaction . kursk state pedagogical university . 33 radischev street , kursk 305004 , russium tel . ( 57 22 ) 2-73 - 61 fax . ( 458 ) 568461 e-mail : kgpu @ home . sovtest . ru international conference : the voice of the foreign language culture tentatively schedule for october 12-16 , 1998 at kursk state pedagogical university , russium . goal : define general approach take by russian and foreign methodologist to the problem of communicative pronunciation teach . foreign language pronunciation , vital for communication , be a complex phenomenon difficult to investigate and not readily yield to teach guidance . no wonder , occasionally it will be declare irrelevant and the attention of the methodologist and teacher be concentrate on more learnable item : grammar and vocabulary . indeed , either the intuitive - imitative approach with its attention to the accuracy of pronunciation or the analytic - linguistic approach with its articulatory and contrastive information , or the cognitive approach which give emphasis to grammar , or the natural approach and the silent way with the attention to the supra - segmental structure have not meet the need of communication . however , this kind of neglect of pronunciation teach be of short duration and it could not be otherwise for evident reason . it be pronunciation that reflect the national character , culture and spirit of the nation , the social characteristic of the speaker , their aim , motive and emotion . you would not really respond adequately to what be be say without the proper awareness of the implication of the pronunciation system . moreover , even in the recognition of grammar and lexical unit we mainly depend on pronunciation parameter . in fact , all speech activity have pronunciation root . that be why we can not neglect teach pronunciation if we want to prepare our student for actual communication . in the communicative approach adhere to in this institution , we demand a communicative paradigm of pronunciation teach . it imply both the communicative aim of teach and structure the teach process in accordance with the natural mechanism of pronunciation acquisition . there be evidence that communicative approach to teach pronunciation be gain universal support . accord to m . celce - murcium , d . m . brinton , j . m . goodwin in " teach pronunciation , " _ cup _ , 1996 . . . teach supra-segmental feature ( rhythm , stress and intonation in a discourse context be the optimal way to organize a short - term pronunciation course . this idea sound promise for a more fundamental course if we take into account the psychological nature of pronunciation acquisition . the objective of the conference be as follow : emphasize social importance and necessity of correct pronunciation point out general problem of teach fl pronunciation develop a communicative syllabus for teach fl pronunciation and specify the teach unit and the context of teach definine communicative strategy for pronunciation teach specify the communicative model for teach pronunciation and its correlation with natural speech mechanism define the link of fl culture and pronunciation teach analyze the communicative model of pronunciation teach as a component of teacher education outline the linguistic foundation of communicative fl pronunciation teach identify the link between pronunciation and grammar , vocabulary and pragmatic context . discussion group on suggest topic : 1 . the social load and the status of pronunciation in multi-cultural society . 2 . pronunciation as an indicator of language proficiency and cultural level . 3 . communicative teach of pronunciation as a basis for teach fl speech . 4 . functional and linguistic aspect of pronunciation teach . 5 . technique of communicative teach of fl pronunciation . we would be delight to discuss the problem and share our experience with those of similar interest . we sincerely hope that the integral effort of the participant of the conference will result in solve some of the problem and enrich our practical competence . first call for paper . the faculty of foreign language and the laboratory of communicative fl teach through cultural interaction at kursk state pedagogical university ( russium ) cordially invite colleague from asium , africa , america and europe to participate in their international conference . we desire to share achievement , concern and exchange expertise in teach english , german and french phonetics and pronunciation . all teacher and methodologist be welcome to attend . paper of 2000 word will be publish subsequently in the conference proceeding . final date for acceptance of application and papers to the above address by 1 july 1998 . kursk , a city lacate 450 km to the south of moscow , be one of the oldest city in russium with a number of attraction interest from historical and cultural point of view . accomodation will be provide at the hotel kursk ( 40-60 $ per night ) . participant will also be offer to live in the appartment with russian family and the student ' dormitory . foreign particapant will be meet in moscow and accompany to kursk if require . we look forward to hear from you . sincerely , nickolay smakhtin dean of the faculty of foreign language vyacheslav buzhinsky head of the english language department
