Subject: 2nd language acquisition

strategies in learning and using a second language andrew d . cohen professor in the department of english as a second language , university of minnesota . paper 0-582 - 30588 - 8 312 page 1998 apply linguistic and language study sery longman ' strategy in learn and using a second language ' explore the topic of learner strategy - the way in which language learner engage with the process of learn and communicate in a new language . the introduction to the book set out the main theoretical issue , distinguish language learn from language use strategy , and describe the main research method for their investigation . the author present innovative research link the use of task-specific strategy with language performance . the volume then present empirical research investigate the language multilingual select for their verbalize thought during language learn and language use . finally , the author present empirical research focus on the strategy learner use in language test-take context . the volume be intend primarily for language teacher and researcher , as well as for administrator of second language program . it be also highly suitable for undergraduate and postgraduate student of apply linguistics and will be of interest to foreign language student , stimulate them to reflect on their strategy for learn and use a second language . the chapter present question and raise area for further discussion and study , make the book suitable for those new to the field . at the same time , the provision of important new research will appeal to those with more advance knowledge in the field . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - errors in language learning and use carl james senior lecturer in the linguistic department at the university of wale , bangor . paper 0-582 - 25763 - 8 320 page 1998 apply linguistic and language study sery longman ' error in language learn and use ' be an up-to - date introduction and guide to the study of error in language , and be also a critical survey of previous work . error analysis occupy a central position within apply linguistic , and seek to clarify question such as ` doe correctness matter ? ' , ` is it more important to speak fluently and write imaginatively or to communicate one 's message ? ' this book provide a scholarly and well-illustrate theoretical and historical background to the field of error analysis . a range of relevant question be address such as whether native speaker make error , and whether ` good english ' for the native speaker be also good for the foreign learner . the reader be lead from definition of error and relate concept , to categorization of type of linguistic deviance , discussion of error gravity , the utility of teacher correction and toward write learner profile . throughout , the book be guide by considerable practical experience in language education in a range of classroom context worldwide . further information on the book publish in this series , and the table of contents for these title can be view at the longman linguistic on-line catalogue at : http : / / www . awl-he . com / linguistics for a complete list of our world-wide office , please click below : http : / / www . awl-he . com / office
