Subject: optimality theory

optimal viewpoints , stuart davi , editor . 138 pp . prepay order by u . s . check or money order . $ 15 . 0 + p&h : $ 3 . 50 us , $ 5 . 0 can , $ 5 . 50 other . iulc publication , 720 e . atwater ave . , bloomington , in 47401 usa . < iulc @ indiana . edu > http : / / php . indiana . edu / ~ iulc / this year the indiana university linguistic club celebrate its 30th anniversary with the publication of _ optimal viewpoint _ represent current work on optimality theory by student , faculty and alumnus of the department of linguistic at indiana university . the papers in the volume cover phenomenon of current theoretical interest in morphology , first language acquisition , phonology and syntax . content be as follow : _ the optimal compound : optimality theory and the typology of synthetic compound _ . heather anderson offer an ot analysis of word order in synthetic compound by demonstrate how the difference between vo and ov language with respect to synthetic compound fall out from the rank of the relevant constraint in an optimality-theoretic grammar . _ the representation of on - glide in american english : evidence from phonologically disorder system _ . in this ot application to english acquisitional phonology , jessica barlow examine the production of consonant-glide cluster from several child over a period of time , and relate her finding to the issue of whether the glide in a consonant-glide sequence function as part of the onset or part of the nucleus . _ output configuration in phonology : epenthesis and syncope in cairene arabic _ . stuart davi and bushra adnan zawaydeh examine the output configuration create by syncope and epenthesis process in cairene arabic . in case where the ot prediction that the output shape of syncope and epenthesis process should be symmetrical be not maintain , there be an override base-identity constraint that play a key role . _ variation in acquisition : an optimal approach _ . in this paper , katherine demuth show than an ot analysis can account for multiple optimal output in acquisitional phonology in term of partially order constraint ranking , or stratify domination hierarchy . _ topic - orient null argument in korean and optimality theory _ . jong - kyoo kim offer an ot analysis of null argument , both subject and object argument , in korean base on the domination of topic-relate constraint over projection-relate constraint . kim also develop a general pro-drop typology which reflect a differential rank of constraint . _ correspondence in kyungsang korean truncation _ . seung - hoon shin examine a range of datum on truncate word in the kyungsang dialect of korean include hypocoristic , truncate compound , and loanword truncation . shin show clear evidence that truncate word can be base on the underlie input rather than on a fully syllabify output .
