Subject: lagb autumn meet

linguistics association of great britain autumn meet 1998 : university of luton first circular and call for paper the 1998 autumn meet will be hold from thursday 10 to saturday 12 september at the university of luton , on its park square campus . the local organiser be vlad zegarac ( vladimir . zegarac @ luton . ac . uk ) . the conference immediately follow the relevance theory workshop , which take place at the university of luton from 8th to 10th september ( for further information contact : s . nicolle @ mdx . ac . uk ) luton be the largest town in the county of bedfordshire and be situate 30 mile north of london on the edge of the chiltern . luton be surround by pleasant countryside with famous walk such as the icknield way . within easy reach of town be public park for picnic , boat , mini-golf and more . by the late 19th century the town have become a centre for hat and lace manufatcure , but a century on luton be chiefly know for its connection with the motor vehicle industry , as home of vauxhall motor . the park square campus be locate in the town centre , close to many pub , restaurant and the arndale shop centre . the former luton college of higher education be grant university status in 1993 and undergo significant expansion ( a 30 milion investment programme have provide new teach , learn and residential facility for about 15 , 0 student ) . part of this expansion be a new faculty of humanity , include a department of linguistic . accommodation : will be in the university hall of residence , within 5 - 7 minute walk distance from the park square bild where the talk will take place . all bedroom be single . each bedroom be part of a flat , which consist of a bathroom , kitchen and five bedroom . travel : the university of luton be at the hub of national and international travel network . it be just off junction 10 of the m1 . london luton airport be ten minute away by car , and it tak five minute to walk to the rail station ( the thaneslink rail network with direct train to london king cross and to gatwick airport ) . london heathrow airport be 40 minute away ( by car ) , and london gatwick be an hour and a half from luton either by car or by train . event : the henry sweet lecture 1998 on the thursday even will be deliver by dan sperber ( cnrs , and crea , ecole politechnique , pari ) . there will be a workshop on experimental pragmatic organise by billy clark ( middlesex university ) . there will be a language tutorial on roshanus , a pamir language of the eastern iranian group of indo - european , give by john payne ( university of manchester ) . there will be a wine party on the thursday even , follow dan sperber 's lecture . enquiry about the lagb meet should be send to the meeting secretary ( address below ) . full detail of the programme and a book form will be include in the second circular , to be send out in june . call for paper : member and potential guest be invite to offer papers for the meet ; abstract be also accept from non-member . the lagb welcome submission on any linguistics or linguistics-relate topic . abstract must arrive by 5 june 1998 and should be send in the format outline below to the follow address : professor r . hudson , department of phonetic and linguistic , university college london , gower street , london , wc1e 6bt . paper for the programme be select anonymously - only the president know the name of the author . abstract must be present as follow : submit seven anonymous copy of the abstract , plus one with name and affiliation , i . e . camera-ready . the complete abstract contain your title and your name must be no longer than one a4 page ( 21cm x 29 . 5cm / 8 . 27 " x 11 . 69 " ) with margin of at least 2 . 5cm ( 1 " ) on all side . you may use single space and type must be no smaller than 12 point . type uniformly in black and make any addition in black . use the best quality printer you can , since if the paper be accept the abstract will be photocopy and insert directly into the collection of abstract send out to participant . write your name and address for correspondence on the back of the abstract which has your name on . the follow layout should be consider as standard : ( title ) optimality and the klingon vowel shift ( speaker ) clark kent ( institution ) department of astrology , eastern mar university the follow guideline may be useful : 1 . briefly state the topic of your paper . 2 . if your paper be to involve an analysis of linguistic material , give critical example , along with a brief indication of their critical nature . 3 . state the relevance of your idea to past work or to the future development of the field . if you be take a stand on a controversial issue , summarise the argument which lead you to take up this position . the normal length for papers deliver at lagb meeting be 25 minute ( plus 15 minute discussion ) . offer of squib ( 10 minute ) or longer papers ( 40 minute ) will also be consider : please explain why your paper require less or more time than usual . n . b . abstracts submission dates : these be alway announce in the first circular for the meet in question . any member who fear that they may receive the first circular too late to be able to submit an abstract before the deadline specify can be assure that an abstract receive by the president by january 1 or june 1 will alway be consider for the next meet . conference bursary : there will be a maximum of 10 bursary available to unsalary member of the association ( e . g . phd student ) with preference give to those who be present a paper . application should be send to the president , and must be receive by 5 june 1998 . please state on your application : ( a ) date of join the lagb ; ( b ) whether or not you be an undergraduate or postgraduate student ; ( c ) if a student , whether you receive a normal grant ; ( d ) if not a student , your employment situation . students who are submitting an abstract and wish to apply for fund should include all the above detail with their abstract . nomination for speaker : nomination be request for future guest speaker ; all suggestion should be send to the honorary secretary . change of address : member be remind to notify the membership secretary ( address below ) of change of address . an institutional address be prefer ; bulk mail save postage . committee member : president professor richard hudson , department of phonetic and linguistic , university college london , gower street , london , wc1e 6bt . e - mail : dick @ ling . ucl . ac . uk honorary secretary professor anna siewierska , department of linguistic , university of lancaster , bailrigg , lancaster la1 4yw . e - mail : a . siewierska @ lancaster . ac . uk membership secretary dr . kerstus brjar , department of linguistic , university of manchester , manchester m13 9pl . e - mail : k . e . borjar @ manchester . ac . uk meeting secretary dr . marjolein groefsema , department of linguistic , university of hertfordshire , watford campus , aldenham , hert . wd2 8at . e - mail : m . groefsema @ hert . ac . uk treasurer dr . paul rowlett , dept . of modern language , university of salford , salford m5 4wt . e - mail : p . a . rowlett @ mod-lang . salford . ac . uk assistant secretary dr . april mcmahon , dept . of linguistic , university of cambridge , sidgwick avenue , cambridge cb3 9dq . e - mail : amm11 @ herm . cam . ac . uk internet home page : the lagb internet home page be now active at the follow address : http : / / clwww . essex . ac . uk / lagb . electronic network : please join the lagb electronic network which be use for disseminate lagb information and for consult member quickly . it can be subscribe to by send the message " add lagb " to : listserv @ postman . essex . ac . uk . future meeting : 8-10 april 1999 university of manchester . 7 - 9 september 1999 university of york . spring 2000 ( provisional ) university college london . autumn 2000 ( provisional ) university of wale , bangor . the meeting secretary would very much like to receive offer of future venue , particularly from institution which the lagb have not previously visit or from place with newly establish linguistics program .
