Subject: sampson : educate eve

g . sampson , ( 1997 ) educate eve : the language instinct debate , cassell , london , 184pp . review by feargal murphy , university college dublin . the rise of generative linguistic in 60 give a new lease of life to the old nature v . nurture debate . the behaviourist model of language be judge a failure at explain the process of language acquisition and a new theory of language acquisition emerge . it be root in the philosophy of descart in the 17th century as well as humboldt and , ultimately , plato . it come to be know as linguistic nativism or rationalist linguistic and be most associate with noam chomsky . the central tenet of this theory be that child be bear with some kind of language acquisition device already in place in their brain which allow them to acquire the language of their environment . within linguistic nativism there have be some debate as to whether this device provide merely general rule that allow for the acquisition of language or whether it be a rich innate system that provide a complete basis for language acquisition so that a child can acquire the complexity of a language at a time when its general cognitive development could not possibly cope with such complexity . the rationalist tradition behind linguistic nativism have alway be in contrast with empiricism which state that all idea and knowledge ( include knowledge of language ) come from experience obtain through the senses and that there can be no innate knowledge . a view that go back to the 17th century and the writings of locke , berkeley and hume and in the modern era have also be associate with the philosopher of the vienna circle and karl popper . _ educate eve _ will certainly not determine the outcome of the nature v . nurture debate , nor will it , in my opinion , lead to any productive insight into the debate . the book fail to understand the scope and import of the nativist argument and consequently fall short of present a genuine criticism of it . as it stand the book will be applaud by those who be already favourably dispose toward its conclusion and deride by those who be not . _ educate eve _ ( henceforth _ ee _ ) argue against the writings of chomsky , as well as pinker 's ' the language instinct ' , bickerton 's ' language and specy ' and jackendoff 's ' pattern in the mind ' . these three book be essentially aim at the general rather than the specialist reader . the result of target these three book be to make the argument against nativism appear weak and superficial . the desire to rescue public opinion from the wrong path be a recur theme in the author 's work . in his _ language and liberty _ , which also argue for a non-nativist view of language , the main aim be to discourage people from follow leave wing politics . the author 's politics , unfortunately , emerge as a strong force in this book . given the importance of the nativism debate i shall focus primarily on the more important linguistic issue , leave aside politics except when they cloud the issue surround nativism the alternative to nativism that this book argue for be essentially a version of karl popper 's empiricism . accord to this view the ability to learn may be innate but there be no domain specific innate mechanism involve in learn . people learn the language of the community they belong to in the same way that they learn anything else , by trial and error . they ' make original though fallible conjecture and test them against objective reality ' ( p . 137 - all quote be from _ ee _ unless otherwise indicate ) . eventually , use this method , each individual come to learn a language . what they learn be ' wholly cultural construct ' ( p . 137 ) , an e - language rather than an i - language , to use chomsky 's terminology . note that the conception of language in _ ee _ be totally different from those of chomsky , jackendoff , bickerton or pinker . for these nativist , language cannot belong to a society rather than to the individual . this issue be not actually address in the book . _ ee _ merely state that language be a cultural artifact and not biological , but do not furnish any evidence for this claim . the book also state popper 's belief that the mind be not amenable to scientific theorise ( p . 138 ) . i be unable to find any evidence in the book to support this claim . however , if one assume that the mind be outside the domain of scientific inquiry then it simply become impossible to engage in a debate about the merit of the specifics of any nativist theory . the first task this book undertake be to demolish chomsky 's argument for nativism ( only source material up to 1991 ) and then to demolish the 's econd wave ' nativist - with pinker foremost in the second wave . the book utilise many argument , some more noteworthy than other , and it would be beyond the scope of this review to examine them all . i will look at a few of the argument , more or less at random . the argument against chomsky centre on what sampson perceive as the basis of nativism : 1 : spee of acquisition 2 : age - dependence 3 : poverty of datum 4 : convergence among grammar 5 : language universal 6 : specy - specificity _ ee _ claim the first argument ( spee of acquisition ) be hollow as there be no way of determine what exactly 's pee ' could be in this area . however , it seem uncontroversial enough that child acquire language faster than adult and that they do so without the problem that adult encounter . there be no attempt in the book to address the notion of whether different language be acquire at different speed or whether different child acquire the same language do so in radically different sequence . this would seem to be a distinct possibility if we do not have an innate language specific faculty but rather rely on some generalise learn mechanism . a look at the evidence regard language acquisition across language would have help make the case conclusive . the book should have deal more with datum available in order to show that only a non-nativist account of language acquisition could capture the fact . instead _ ee _ rely on the notion that the popperian account can cope just as well as a nativist account and be closer to the ' common sense ' view of language . but this do not prove that a popperian account be right . chomsky 's second argument ( age - dependence ) be dismiss because , the book state , human can learn language at any age " if they see the task as worthwhile " ( p . 36 ) . however , the author do not describe any procedure for assess the worthwhileness of the task . why a child would find it worthwhile to learn a language when its need be be meet by compliant adult respond to non-linguistic communication be not address . if the early vocalisation of child be evidence of the beginning of language acquisition , then the child be decide at a very early age that language be ' worthwhile ' , at a stage when it seem difficult to believe the child be weigh up any option to see what may or may not be worthwhile . follow this logic we could extend the criterion of " worthwhileness " to other ' learn ' such as ' learn to walk ' and eliminate the innate component from that as well . the book state that there be " plenty of case on record of adult master a second language to native-speaker standard apart from accent " ( p . 36 ) ; i be not quite sure what it may mean to achieve native-speaker standard apart from accent . what the book suggest - without provide any crucial evidence - - be that " learn as a general process be for biological reason far more rapid before puberty than after " ( p . 37 ) . this be suppose to show that age dependence be not proof of a critical period for language acquisition use some innate language acquisition device - - a critical period be one of the feature that be characteristic of innate behaviour . the age dependence , accord to the book , fall out from the slow down of the learn process in general after puberty . this , however , seem to contradict the other argument against age dependence ; that an adult can master a second language to native speaker standard . the author also state that " susan curtiss herself regard genie as refute the strong version of lenneberg 's claim , that natural language acquisition cannot occur after puberty " ( p . 37 ) . susan curtiss may want to respond to that one herself . my understand of her work on genie be that genie do have language ( that be , rule-govern creative linguistic behaviour ) but be not able to achieve anything close to native speaker competence while under observation ( curtiss , p . 204 ) even though it would indeed have be ' worthwhile ' to do so . furthermore her linguistic development do not follow the same course as child acquire language normally . this suggest that genie 's ability to learn language be diminish due to her age but the important point be that her cognitive development in other area seem not to be so affect . it would also have be worthwhile for chelsea to have learn language , yet chelsea do not achieve native speaker standard ( see jackendoff 's _ pattern in the mind _ ) . the third argument present by chomsky for nativism , accord to the book , be poverty of datum during acquisition . the argument against chomsky present in the book do not bear close scrutiny . accord to the book , motherese provide a " grade series of language lesson " ( p . 39 ) and be not at all degenerate , as the poverty of datum argument state . this be not particularly new ( the reference cite by the author be from the early 70 ) . the fact be , however , that we really do not yet know what role - if any - motherese play in learn / acquire a language . but one thing worth note be that there be no language teach theory that propose that adult could be most effectively teach a second language through be teach in motherese . it be also true that there do not yet exist conclusive study on the universality of motherese ( although the wide variety of language group study show a high degree of similarity ) . in some culture motherese seem to play less of a role and be different to the motherese we see in the english speak world . in fact motherese or child direct speech seem not to make the task of learn / acquire language all that much easier but what it do be allow for a high degree of socialisation . this can be see in the fact that the simplification of structure decrease greatly when the parent and child be no longer in the presence of the observer but merely be tap . the motherese wa s not for the benefit of the child only . of course , if language be not in any way innate we be leave with the problem of explain how child direct speech be so perfectly a " grade series of language lesson " for the infant , despite the fact that adult be not teach how to give language lesson , perhap empiricist would have to say that the ability to give " a grade series of lesson " in language be innate . the author state that a popperian account of language learn would allow for a child to determine the general principle from the input ( as it would for an adult who want to learn a language ) . this be important as the nativist account hold that the basic principle of language be innate and thus be available for use in determine what be go on in the language input . individual learn a language vium a popperian method would use their learn ability to work out the general principle from the input without any of these principle be already available in the head . but what be we to make of case of * specific language impairment * where the rate of learn / acquisition a language seem different from other area of learn ? the whole basis of a popperian analysis be that language acquisition be not different from any other domain where learn occur . consequently , it predict that there could be no difference between the acquisition of language and learn in other cognitive domain . this prediction run counter to report fact as clearly present in yamada 's 1990 book ' laura : a case study for the modularity of language ' . in argue against chomsky , the author take chomsky 's much use example of english speak child determine how to ask yes / no question . he be seek to show that chomsky be be dishonest in his analysis by not verify the datum . a child work out how to make a yes / no question in english have to work out that if any verb be to be move it have to be the verb in the main clause and not just the first verb encounter in the sentence . to work this out , a child have to distinguish between verb and other word and also between main verb and auxiliary verb as well as know the structure of the phrase in the sentence . then the child have to work out that auxiliary verb in the main clause can move to the begin of the sentence but that main verb appear in the infinitive while a tense 'd o ' occur at the begin of the sentence . chomsky 's point be that child learn to make these distinction and move the appropriate verb from the appropriate position to form a yes / no question with great ease . both the author and chomsky agree on the analysis of the rule involve in form a yes / no question but where they differ be in their belief about the * exposure * of child to yes / no question where the main clause be not the first clause in the sentence but rather a subordinate clause appear first , as in : is the man who be talk to bill wear glove ? chomsky 's claim be that a child may not encounter such a question in the language s / he hear before determine the rule of yes / no question formation . _ ee _ argue that such sentence be indeed present in the language that child hear . what the book actually have to prove be that all child hear this crucial form of yes / no question before they determine the yes / no question formation rule . this be not show but instead it be argue that such structure be available to child who read ; but child who do n't read learn language as well . indeed it be quite possible that child form the rule about yes / no question formation before the ever learn to read . the author claim that he show that chomsky be ' wildly mistake ' ( p . 42 ) , he paraphrase the situation as follow : " . . the man who be the world 's lead live intellectual , accord the cambridge university a second plato be base his radical reassessment of human nature largely on the claim that a certain thing never happen ; he tell us that it strain his credulity to think that it may happen , but he have never look , and people who have look find that it happen a lot . " ( p . 42-43 ) the people who have look be sampson himself and geoff pullum ( p . 42 ) but they have only check source of write language but as i have say this ignore the fact that illiterate child can also speak . in fact , so enamour be the author with the write word that he argue that , historically , hypotaxi emerge as literacy develop . somehow the organisation involve in write lead to great leap forward in language . he do finally admit that there be no great research on this topic but blame linguistics department for this ( " this be not a popular topic of research in linguistics department " , p . 75 ) . there be nothing to prevent the tap of the speaker of modern pre-literate language - if one can find any culture that could be class as pre-literate without any qualification - in order to test for the occurrence of hypotaxi but the author do n't seem to have u ndertaken this task . the book do n't opt fully for the idea that there be little or no hypotaxi in the language of ancient pre-literate culture as the author state , hedge his bet : " if there be little or no hypotaxi in these language " [ the hebrew of the old testament etc . ] " that be a real difference between them and more recent language " . ( p . 75 ) for obvious reason we can never answer the question of whether or not there be hypotaxi in hebrew before write or indeed while write be still a fairly recent innovation . it be true that serious investigation into parataxi and subordination in various language have be carry out and go back over one hundr year . the book claim that " it be a cliche of late nineteenth century linguistics that the early stage of language with a long record history show a development from what be call parataxi to hypotaxi " ( p . 74 ) . it cite great linguist like karl brugmann , hermann paul and eduard hermann as support for the notion that language go from a paratactic stage to a hypotactic stage . but there be two problem with this . firstly , not all nineteenth century linguist would have be happy with the notion that hypotaxi emerge as write develop . hermann jacobus 's 1897 work ' composition und nebensatz ' conclude that " maorus , like early stage of pie may not have have contain a relative particle " in subordination ( lehmann , p . 60 ) . so jacobus be claim that pie do have subordination which be the basis of hypotaxi for brugmann , paul and hermann . secondly , there be really no reason to believe that nineteenth century linguist get everything right in comparative and historical linguistics . the idea that hypotaxi emerge from a previous stage must be see alongside other idea in nineteenth century linguistics about the development of language from primitive system to more complex system . the fourth argument the book look at be convergence among grammar - the notion that people of vary level of intelligence and exposure to different language input , converge on the same grammar . the book claim ( p . 46 ) that chomsky have admit that educate people may know their mother tongue better . this do not fit in with an i - language approach and so be obviously not representative of chomsky 's theory of language . an i - language approach exclude the possibility of a mother tongue ( an e - language ) that people have master to vary degree . for chomsky such thing as english or hungarian or swahilus do not exist in any meaningful way . this be controversial , but the point be that for chomsky there be no mother tongue divorce from an individual 's knowledge of it . the second line of argument identify by sampson be that people do not actually converge on the same grammar as they give different grammatical judgment in response to the same datum . the book refer to labov 's work - present in austerlitz ( 1974 ) - where respondent vary in their judgment about the grammaticality of present sentence . the really interest thing here be that the people take the test understand the instruction - oral and write - which they be give concern the test . it be hard to see how they could all have the same understand of what be say to them unless they have pretty much the same grammar . the language that be use in their instruction would most likely have contain a variety of syntactic construction , but there be no report of the people complete the test remark on the ungrammaticality of any of the instruction they be give . it be easy to find people vary in group and even as individual over time when you ask them to assess sentence such as : ' every one of the boy do n't go there ' . the fact that individual will differ in their judgment over time show that what be be test be not the individual 's competence because an adult 's competence do not vary - although their performance may . a large number of factor determine whether an individual would judge a sentence like the one give above as perfectly grammatical or borderline or totally ungrammatical . but the fact that there be a variation in the report judgment do not in fact constitute an argument against convergence among grammar it be not a test of grammar but rather a test of performance . intuition about sentence involve scope relation of quantifier and negation vary because of the many factor that bear on performance . the book also contend ( pp . 107 - 137 ) that the existence of language universal can be explain by the fact that a popperian learn system will automatically yield such universal . they be not the result of the nature of the language faculty but instead derive from the popperian system of learn . again , the author do not show that a popperian account be better than a nativist account at capture the fact . if the case against nativism be to be prove , then those language universal that we can agree to exist must be explicable either within a popperian system * only * or at least they should be explain better by a popperian learn theory . the book do not do this . the book target pinker 's ' the language instinct ' . why sampson decide to devote so much effort to the book be somewhat puzzle . pinker 's book be aim at a fairly general audience and as such be not really a worthwhile target . among the argument against pinker we find the assumption that surname be actual word in individual language . this means that the existence of a person in england with 's rus ' as the first three letter in his surname means that 's rus ' be a possible initial consonant cluster in english ( p . 83 ) . the author also can't resist take a pot-shot at what he imagine pinker 's political view to be . the tone of his response to pinker be one of condescension which can be irritate and detract from any point that the author may be try to make as well as be irrelevant to the substantive issue . but the worst attack be save for bickerton . the book seek to portray him as an intellectual lightweight in a most unappeal way ( p . 76 ) : " [ bickerton 's ] stuff must be a real hit with green student on hawaius " . it be surely not too much to expect that personal abuse would be keep out of the realm of intellectual debate . the book also take on jackendoff state that jackendoff write well : " jackendoff be one of the best writer among the linguistic nativist " ( p . 76 ) , but not forgive him for be a nativist . " if jackendoff reach for the word ' instinct ' so hastily in these case , how can we trust him to use the word judiciously where there be real question to be resolve " ( p . 79 ) . the main issue pick up on in jackendoff 's work relate to sign language . at one stage the author say ( argue against jackendoff 's analysis of universal grammar ) : " jackendoff have shortly beforehand point out that one aspect of american sign language grammar be not parallel in any speak language . the sign-language equivalent of the third person pronoun ( she , they , his ) consist of gesture ( with hand shape and movement that depend on whether the reference be singular , plural or possessive ) to location in the sign space which have be assign to successive topic of conversation . ' the effect be that there be as many different third-person pronoun available as there be discernible location in the sign space ' . no speak language have a pronoun system remotely like this , so how can it be part of our innate knowledge . " ( p . 78 ) the author be miss the point here . sign language express person , number , gender and possession as speak language do and not some other feature not find in speak language . so the system the same as speak language . the use of pronoun in sign language be exactly the same as the use of pronoun in speak language and be base on universal grammar , what be different be the modality . the availability of the sign space means that a signer can introduce a greater number of pronoun into the discourse as each pronoun can be allocate a location in the sign space without lead to any confusion . this be the same as the fact that i could use as many second person singular pronoun as i want as long as i look at the individual that i be address with that pronoun . look at the person that i be refer to with the pronoun be really the same as the signer use the sign space to tag pronoun . this be not just true of second person pronoun . i could be talk about , say , the member of a football team and refer to each individual use a third person pronoun . i could be quite clear in my own head who be be pick out each time , it would just be confuse to the person i be talk to . this be because there would be no way for them to distinguish the referent of each of the pronoun . in sign language i can exploit the possibility of the sign space by tag each mean of a pronoun with a location in space so that the whole thing do not get confuse . the potential in both oral and sign language be the same , but sign can exploit the sign space in a way that oral language cannot . the point be that the limitation be not impose by language but by the modality . what jackendoff be say be that the same universal grammar underlie language no matter what the modality . the last chapter in the book ( ' the creative mind ' ) present sampson 's view of popper . it be not without problem and the author devote much time to argue that popper do n't alway mean what he say and that sampson 's analysis of popper be the best . however , the crucial line in the chapter for the purpose of nature v . nurture be : " mind be not a topic open to scientific theorise . " ( p . 139 ) and " the position adopt in this book be that conscious human mind be not physical entity . talk about mind be not a way of talk about high-level aspect of brain function . mind and body be different and separate thing which act on one another . " ( p . 138 ) for all those people who believe that mind be indeed a topic open to scientific theorise this will render anything else the book have to say suspect . modern nativist ( as well as most non-nativist ) view the mind as amenable to scientific theorise . for chomsky there be no other possible way to study the mind ( chomsky 1993 , 1995 ) . it be hard to see how a significant debate can take place between two such opposite point of view . the author be commit to the cause of a popperian analysis of language learn / acquisition but will never be able to convert a nativist to his way of think until he can gain an understand of the motivation for adopt a nativist position or reconcile himself with the possibility that nativism may be a stance that an intelligent person can adopt . the author seem to imagine himself fight a rear guard action against the horde of misguide nativist who , as he see it , be close to win the heart and mind of the mass . one important aspect of this book be that it can be read as a means of test how one feel about linguistic nativism . unfortunately for sampson 's crusade , it have the effect of make me prefer the nativist analysis even more than before . ( more background information about the author , geoffrey sampson , and the book ' educate eve ' be available at : http : / / www . gr . u-net . com / ) bibliography : r . austerlitz ( ed ) ( 1974 ) , the scope of american linguistic , peter de ridder press . n . chomsky ( 1993 ) , " naturalism and dualism in the study of language " , international journal of philosophical study , 2 ( 2 ) : 181 - 209 . n . chomsky ( 1995 ) , " language and nature " , mind , 104 ( 403 ) : 1 - 61 . s . curtiss ( 1977 ) , genie : a psycholinguistic study of a modern day " wild child " , academic press . p . fletcher and b . macwhinney ( ed ) ( 1995 ) , the handbook of child language , blackwell . w . p . lehmann ( 1974 ) , proto - indo - european syntax , university of texa press . g . sampson ( 1979 ) , liberty and language , oup . g . sampson ( 1980 ) , school of linguistic , hutchinson . j . yamada ( 1990 ) , laura : a case for the modularity of language , mit press . feargal murphy , lecturer in the department of linguistic , university college dublin . http : / / www . ucd . ie / ~ linguist / gogs2 . html
