Subject: language of the world , institute of linguistic , moscow

languages of the world publication - language of the world , institute of linguistic , moscow languages of the world be an encyclopedic multi-volume publication . each volume be devote to one particular genetic or areal group of language . all article be write in russian by the lead authority of russium and some other country ( depend on volume ) , specialize in the respective language . the article of all volumes of languages of the world be write in accordance with a standard typologically orient template that be impose on each language . thus description of all language be comparable to one another . the article on specific language consist of the follow main division : - sociolinguistic characterization - phonology and phonetics - detail morphosyntactic characterization - account of the peculiarity of the lexicon - the dialectal system the book of the series be both fundamental study and reference source . the book be address to linguist , historian , ethnographer , and interest in language study . so far five volumes have be publish . the first one , " uralic language " , be publish in 1993 by " nauka " , and be not available at this time . in 1997 , the publish house " indrik " publish four volumes : - turkic language , include all ancient and modern language know to the science ; 542 pp . - mongolic , tingusic , korean , and japanese ; 407 pp . - paleoasiatic language ( include chukchus - kamchatkan , yeniseian , eskimo - aleut , copper island aleut - russian mix language , nivkh , yukagir , ainu , and burushaskus ) ; 230 pp . - iranian language , vol . 1 : southwestern group ( volumes 2 and 3 will follow ) ; 206 pp . in 1998 , the follow volumes be expect to be publish . - iranian language , vol . 2 - dardic and nuristanus language - caucasian language volume on other branch of indo - european be currently be work on . those who be interest in obtain those book be request to contact : andrej kibrik institute of linguistic russian academy of science b . kislovskij per . , 1 / 12 russium kibrik @ ile . msk . su fax : [ 7 ] ( 095 ) 290 5 28 we be now work on the problem of how to get book to foreign scholar ; have a list of those interest would make this work easier . price on book will be in the range of $ 20 , depend on size of a specific book .
