Subject: computationally - intensive method in quantitative linguistic

second workshop in computationally-intensive methods in quantitative linguistics department of statistic university of glasgow , uk 7 - 9 september 1998 announcement and call for registration in recent year technique from discipline such as computer science , articficial intelligence and statistics have find their way into the page of journal such as the journal of quantitative linguistic , literary and linguistic compute and computer and the humanity . while this influx may bring more advance method of analysis to the field of quantitative linguistics , stylometry and stylistic , the demand upon researcher to understand and use these new technique be great . familiarity with the appropriate software and the ear of a sympathetic expert be pre-requisite without which the technique may seem out of reach to the average researcher . the humanity advance technology and information institute and the department of statistic of the university of glasgow be hence support this practical workshop in computationally - intensive method in quantitative linguistic . the workshop be design to introduce the participant to four such technique in a practical environment . each half-day session will be divide into an introductory session in a lecture theatre and a longer period spend work with software and practical example . all of the speaker have publish papers use the analysis they will present and their aim in this workshop be to enable the participant to return to their home institution able to carry out these technique in the course of their own research . the session and speaker be as follow : harald baayen ; max planck institute for psycholinguistic , nijmegen , the netherland . large number of rbe event model walter daeleman ; university of tilburg , the netherland . linguistic as data mine : using machine learn technique to discover linguistic generalization michael oake ; university of lancaster , unted kingdom . multivariate statistic in corpus linguistic fiona tweedie ; university of glasgow , unite kingdom . time sery model in linguistic the workshop will be hold in the mathematic build of the university of glasgow , commence on monday 7 september at 1pm . the four workshop session will take place on monday afternoon , tuesday 8 september and the morn of wednesday 9 september . there will also be a half day tour on the wednesday afternoon and a reception in the hunterian art gallery on monday even . accommodation have be arrange in university accommodation with some en suite facility . the reception , tea and coffee , lunch on 8 and 9 september and even meal on 7 and 8 september be include in the registration fee . the registration fee , until 15 july , be gbp150 . 0 and gbp100 . 0 for student . participant who be also attend the digital resource in the humanity conference , 9-12 september be eligible for a discount in the registration fee . for more information about the workshop and to register , please consult the web site at http : / / www . stats . glum . ac . uk / ~ cimql , or send email to the conference organiser at cimql @ stats . glum . ac . uk .
