Subject: sociolinguistic

women changing language anne pauwels , professor of linguistic in the department of linguistic at the university of new england , armidale , australium . paper 0-582 - 09962 - 5 hardback 0-582 - 09961 - 7 280 page 1998 real language sery longman - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ' women chang language ' document and discuss feminist language reform , look at the initiative and action of woman around the world to change the bias representation of the sex in language . the book pay tribute to the activity of many woman who have help debunk myth about the relationship between woman and language , for example that woman be ' consumer ' of language and man be ' maker ' of mean and creator of language rule . the study reverse this view , concentrate on woman as mean ' maker ' . women be show to be language activist who readily challenge sexist language assumption and practice . the discussion around feminist language reform be approach from a language plan perspective , which have until now be give little recognition . moreover , for the first time , this study adopt multilingual and multicultural dimension , draw example from europe and asium . the extensive collection of multilingual datum reveal diversity as well as similarity between language in the expression and code of sexism . the study also stress the need to bear in mind that different cultural attitude can have vary effect on the acceptance and success of language reform . this book be highly recommend for student and lecturer in sociolinguistic , woman 's study , critical discourse analysis as well as the sociology of language . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - further information on the book publish in this series , and the table of contents for this title can be view at the longman linguistic on-line catalogue at : http : / / www . awl-he . com / linguistics for a complete list of our world-wide office , please click below : http : / / www . awl-he . com / office
