Subject: mt special issue on slt : reminder

reminder - - deadline is july 1 1998 call for submissions machine translation special issue on spoken language translation guest editor : steven krauwer ( utrecht university ) guest editorial board : doug arnold ( university of essex ) pascale fung ( hkust , hong kong ) walter kasper ( dfki , saarbrucken ) alon lavie ( cmu , pittsburgh ) lorus levin ( cmu , pittsburgh ) hermann ney ( rwth , aachen ) harold somer ( umist , manchester ) some 15 year ago , when machine translation have become fashionable again in europe , few people would be prepare to consider seriously embark upon speak language translation research . after all , where both machine translation of write text , and speech understand and production ( despite important achievement ) be still quite far from show robustness in domain-independent application , it seem clear that put three not even halfway understand technology together would be premature , and bind to fail . since then , the world have change . many researcher , both in academia and in industry , have take up the challenge to build system capable of translate speak language . doe that mean that most of the problem involve in speech-to - text , text-to - text translation , and text-to - speech have be solve ? the answer be no : although we have make a tremendous progress , both from a scientific and from a technological point of view , many of the fundamental problem in mt and in speech understand remain unsolve . yet a certain degree of optimism be justify here . first of all , it be clear that on the whole general expectation of what mt will do be change . where in the past the ultimate goal of mt seem to be to provide a perfect , but cheaper and faster alternative to the human translator , there be now a clear shift from the ideal of fully automate high quality translation of unrestrict text to the more practical problem of overcome the language barrier we encounter in various situation . this shift of focus allow us to partition the problem we address into a series of smaller one , the solution to which may be within our reach . this apply both to speak and write language translation . if we look at speak communication between human being with different native language , very often the main success criterion for this communication be not whether or not the individual utterance produce by the participant have be express or understand without error ( which will rarely be the case ) , but rather whether the intend goal of the communication have be attain ( hotel room reservation , airline information , etc ) . this observation be extremely important when we try to set our goal for speak translation system . once we have realize that communication take place in a specific context , with a specific goal , and have accept that sentence-by - sentence linguistically correct translation be not a necessary condition for successful multilingual communication , we can start exploit the full potential of speak dialogue in human-human and human-machine interaction : the basic structure of dialogue , the way to control dialogue flow , the possibility for repair . a workshop dedicate to speak language translation , organize in conjunction with eacl / acl 1997 in madrid , show that there be a keen interest in the topic , and that many acedemic and industrial research team have interest result to report . therefore we feel that the time have come to dedicate a special issue of the journal machine translation to this topic , and we be invite high-quality , previously unpublish research papers address problem in the whole field of speak language translation . ( note : author who have papers accept for the madrid workshop be especially encourage to submit papers which have develop out of their workshop contribution , though they should note that we do not intend simply to reprint the workshop papers in their original form . ) we be especially interest in papers address problem or solution that be typical for speak language translation ( as oppose to write language translation ) . format for submission : please consult the journal 's web page : home page : http : / / kapi . www . wkap . nl / journalhome . htm / 0922-6567 instruction for author : http : / / kapi . www . wkap . nl / kaphtml . htm / ifa0922-6567 latex style file : http : / / kapi . www . wkap . nl / jrnlstyle . htm / 0922-6567 article should be submit directly to the publishers , either by e-mail to ellen . klink @ wkap . nl , with the subject header " submission to coat speech special issue " , or in hard-copy to either of the follow address : machine translation editorial office , machine translation editorial office kluwer academic publisher kluwer academic publisher p . o . box 990 , p . o . box 230 3300 az dordrecht , accord , ma 02018-023 the netherland u . s . a . the journal be typeset use latex , so the prefer medium for submission of article in electronic format be latex source ( use the kluwer style file ) or gzip postscript . if submit hard-copy , four copy of the paper be require . the length of the papers should be approximately 10-20 page if use the kluwer style file ( around 20k word ) . author be request to send a copy of an abstract of not more than 200 word to the guest editor steven . krauwer @ let . ruu . nl or in hard-copy to steven krauwer , utrecht institute of linguistic ots , tran 10 , 3512 jk utrecht , the netherland submission deadline : submission and abstract should be receive by july 1 1998 . paper will be review by at least three member of the editorial board . we be aim for publication as issue 3 or 4 of volume 13 ( autumn or winter , 1998 ) .
