Subject: workshop annoncement and call for paper - clitic

workshop announcement and call for paper c l i t i c s 24th - 26th february 1999 konstanz university , germany we be please to announce our workshop on ' clitic ' during the 21st annual meet of the german society of linguistic in konstanz ( germany ) . in linguistic research , clitic play an increasingly prominent role . the status of clitic be under discussion in phonology , morphology , and syntax , as well as in the respective interface . in these field , the discussion on clitic give rise to controversial analysis . one open question be whether we need in fact a separate linguistic category ' clitic ' , or whether these element can be subsume under different linguistic category , such as affix . - with respect to phonology , it be undetermine how clitic be incorporate into phonological structure . should we distinguish a clitic group in the prosodic hierarchy , be clitic part of prosodic word , or be they leave outside prosodic structure ? how be their phonological deficiency best account for ? - concern the morphology of clitic , especially regard the occurrence of opaque clitic in clitic cluster , analysis within the framework of distribute morphology compete with those which propose an optimality theoretic solution . - also , the morphosyntactic status of clitic be unclear . is it possible to capture the order of clitic in clitic cluster in a more explanatory way than in term of template ? the complex condition on clitic double give rise to the question whether clitic should be analyse as agreement marker or as argument . - syntactic aspect of clitic play a major role in recent analysis in different theoretical framework . for instance , there be no agreement on the explanation of clitic climb and it be an unsettle issue whether clitic placement should be account for in a syntactic , prosodic , prosodic-syntactic , or optimality-theoretic approach . the workshop intend to bring together phonologist , morphologist , and syntactician and provide an ideal opportunity to share insight and to discuss the issue mention above . in addition to the invite speaker presentation , there be 9 slot for 30 - minute presentation , and 3 slot for 1 hour presentation ( include discussion ) . invite speaker : geert booij ( free university amsterdam ) jane grimshaw ( rutger university ) juan uriagereka ( university of maryland ) please send a one-page abstract before 15th august 1998 to : birgit gerlach & janet grijzenhout , seminar fuer allgemeine sprachwissenschaft , heinrich - heine - universitaet , universitaetsstr . 1 , 40225 duesseldorf , germany . we may be contact by e-mail at gerlach @ phil-fak . uni-duesseldorf . de , or grijzenh @ phil-fak . uni-duesseldorf . de
