Subject: conf : scil 10 - linguistic in cognitive science

scil-10 june 6 & 7 northwestern university annenberg hall 10th annual student conference in linguistics " linguistic in cognitive science " june 6 and 7 , annenberg hall , northwestern university . registration information at http : / / www . ling . nwu . edu / ~ scil / send question to scil @ ling . nwu . edu schedule : saturday , june 6 semantics session sat 9 : 0 jya - lin hwang university of hawaius , manoa on chinese resultative verb compound : a lexical subordination approach sat 9 : 30 anna goy universita ' dus torino ( italy ) lexical semantic of emotional adjective sat 10 : 0 masaakus fujus rutger university a stage - level e - type pronoun in japanese - - - - - - - break syntax session a sat 11 . 0 keiko murumatsu university of maryland the count / mass distinction and the order of adjective sat 11 : 30 kleanthe k . grohmann university of maryland syntactic inquiry into discourse restriction on multiple interrogative sat 12 : 0 ralph c . blight university of texa at austin vp ellipsis , predicate front , and verb position in english - - - - - - - lunch break psycholinguistics session sat 2 : 0 barbara j . luka university of chicago judgment fatigue : when metacognition and linguistic data crash and burn sat 2 : 30 julie hilliard university of kansa the perception of lexical stress in auditory word recognition sat 3 : 0 john grinstead ucla jeffrey macswan ucla susan curti ucla rochel gelman ucla the independence of language and number sat 3 : 30 aida martinovic - zic university of wisconsin at milwaukee jelena jovanovic university of californium at berkeley conceptualization of motion and language - specific constraint in first language acquisition - - - - - - break sat 4 : 30 - 6 : 0 keynote address lilum gleitman university of pennsylvanium more surprise about word learn : the human simulation paradigm - - - - - - - dinner break sat 8 : 0 scil party omnus orrington hotel ( until midnight ) sunday , june 7 syntax session b sun 9 : 0 masao ochus university of connecticut multiple spell - out , pf merger and adjunction sun 9 : 30 satoshus oku university of connecticut english genitive " pronoun " as isomorph of anaphor and pronominal sun 10 : 0 mika kizu mcgill university resumptive a ' - dependency in cleave construction - - - - - break language acquisition and discourse analysis session sun 11 : 0 vaijayanthus sarma mit acquisition of condition a and agreement : the developmental syntax of tamil sun 11 : 30 hikyoung lee university of pennsylvanium the production and perception of discourse marker use in korean american sun 12 : 0 laurel stvan northwestern university how about it ? the influence of accent and context in determine discourse function - - - - lunch break phonology session sun 2 : 0 caroline jone university of massachusett , amherst licit v . illicit response in meinhof 's rule phenomenon sun 2 : 30 walcir cardoso mcgill university resolve hiatus in picard : an optimality account sun 3 : 0 tao - yuan li university of minnesota effect of phonetic duration and phonological complexity on short - term memory
