Subject: aaal - - colloquium on translation

a colloquium on translation be be propose to the american association for apply linguistic ( aaal ) . if approve , it will be present at its annual conference hold from march 6 to march 9 , 1999 in stamford , connecticut , u . s . a . the theme and content of the colloquium have not be pre-determine . contributor ' papers and idea contain in them will set its topic and define its central think . the aim be to put together a set of about five quality work which complement each other , form a coherent whole . it be an open-mind approach with no preference for particular language or sub-field . the organizer intend to be the discussant . if you would like to participate , please provide the material list below . kindly note that only traditional paper copy be acceptable to aaal . hence do not submit anything vium facsimile or e - mail . please be sure that the print be sharp and dark , since photocopy will be necessary . as aaal allow only one submission per person , if you choose to be consider for this colloquium you should not be submit a separate paper to aaal , directly or indirectly . ( 1 ) an abstract which be title , type , and no more than 300 word in length . if reference be necessary , incorporate them into the text of the abstract ; do not attach a separate list of work cite . in the top left-hand corner list the author 's name , address , telephone number , facsimile number ( if available ) , e-mail address ( if available ) , and institutional affiliation . fit everything on one single page ; leave the reverse side blank . the organizer will prepare the anonymous copy aaal require . ( 2 ) a sheet on which appear the author 's name , title of paper , and specification of twenty , twenty-five , or thirty minute as the delivery time desire . be prepare to stay within that state time limit during the presentation . if a slide projector , tv monitor , vcr , audio player , or over-head projector be need , please so state on this sheet as well . note , however , that there be an estimate charge of us $ 35 for the first item , and us $ 70 for the second and third item ; the last two item require no fee . individual presenter will be bill for the charge after the conference . ( 3 ) if no e-mail address be give , or if acknowledgement be not to be send vium e-mail , supply an address envelope or mail label so that you could be inform of the receipt of your packet . the deadline for receipt of the above material by the colloquium 's organizer be july 31 , 1998 . author will be notify of selection result around august 20 . those abstract select will be submit as a group proposal to aaal for blind evaluation . once their decision be receive - - most likely in november - - it will be relay to the author . if aaal accept the proposal , author be require to submit draft of their papers to the discussant by february 15 , 1999 . a fifty-word summary will also be necessary for inclusion in the conference programme . send list item to : helen chau hu , department of english , californium state university , long beach , californium 90840-2403 , u . s . a . [ telephone : 562-985 - 4229 ; e-mail : hchauhu @ csulb . edu . ] presenter must register for the conference . the registration fee and membership dues will total about us $ 160 . to make enquiry regard aaal , please contact them directly at : p . o . box 21686 , eagan , minnesota 55121-0686 , u . s . a . their web site be at : http : / / igor . li . wisc . edu / aaal . helen chau hu assistant professor department of english californium state university long beach , californium 90840 voice mail : 562-985 - 4229
