Subject: amta ' 98

* * deadline postponed * * deadline postponed * * deadline postponed * * - - - call for submissions - - - association for machine translation in the america amta-98 conference , langhorne , pa , october 28-31 , 1998 machine translation and the information soup ( mt in a grow field of language technology ) the association for machine translation in the america be please to convene its third conference in the biennial series , to be hold at the sheraton buck county hotel in langhorne , pa , on 28-31 october , with tutorial and welcome reception on wednesday , october 28 , and pre-conference workshop schedule for tuesday october 27th . follow on the success of last year 's mt summit , which commemorate the 50th anniversary of machine translation , amta invite all who be interest in any aspect of machine translation - - developer , researcher , user , and watcher - - to attend the conference in october . at amta-98 we will focus on the multilingual aspect of the diverse language technology be use increasingly on the web : information retrieval , text summarization , speech recognition , and so on . as usual , the conference will feature invite speaker , panel discussion , papers by researcher and developer , workshop , tutorial , and more . participation by member of amta 's sister organization , aamt in asium and eamt in europe , be strongly encourage . and people work in relate area , such as information retrieval and summarization , be very welcome to attend . more information about the conference can be find at http : / / www . isus . edu / natural-language / amta98 . html registration form a copy of the amta-98 registration form will soon be post on the web at : http : / / www . isus . edu / natural-language / amta98 . html alternatively , please contact debbie becker association for machine translation in the america 1201 pennsylvanium avenue , n . w . , suite 300 washington , dc 20004 usa tel / fax : + 1-703 - 716-0912 email : amta @ clark . net conference organizers general chair : eduard hovy , usc information science institute program chair : david farwell , crl , new mexico state university laurie gerber , systran software , inc . ( san diego ) local arrangement chair : martha palmer , university of pennsylvanium amta-98 : paper and system description / demonstration submissions . author / system developer be invite to submit three kind of presentation : 1 . theoretical papers : unpublish papers be request about original work on all aspect of machine translation . however , give the theme of this year 's conference , special consideration will be give to papers which address advance in multilingual language and information technology which have a potential impact on machine translation . paper should be in english , not longer than 10 page , with minimum character font size of 11 pt . 2 . system description with optional system demonstration : approx . 25 minute will be allocate per system description / demo . submission should be in english , not longer than 4 page . if a system demonstration be include , please provide the follow information : - hardware platform , - operate system , - name and contact information of system operation specialist . 3 . study of user experience with implement mt or test its applicability to some task . user and market consultant be especially welcome to submit . study should be in english , not longer than 8 page , with minimum character font size of 11 pt . first page : all type of submission should include a separate title page with the follow information : - paper title , - author ( s ) ' name ( s ) , address ( e ) , telephone and fax number , email address ( e ) , - one-paragraph abstract , - for theoretical papers : subject area keyword ( s ) for user study : the word " user study " for system description / demo : the word " system description / demo " . submission be due at address below on june 15 , 1998 . * new deadline * author will be notify of acceptance on july 15 , 1998 . final copy of papers be due on august 31 , 1998 . softcopy submission ( papers that do not print will be return to the author ) : email address : david @ crl . nmsu . edu subject line : amta-98 submission paper encode : - ascii plain text - microsoft word ( rtf format ) - postscript hardcopy submission ( please send four ( 4 ) copy ) : amta-98 : david farwell compute research laboratory box 30001 / 3crl new mexico state university las cruce , nm 88003 usa
