Subject: review : watt , phonology of intonation .

watt , david l . e . 1994 . _ the phonology and semology of intonation in english : an instrumental and systemic perspective . _ bloomington : indiana university linguistic club publication . 192pp . paper . review by karen steffen chang < karchung @ ccm . ntu . edu . tw > good book on intonation be not that easy to come by , in this reviewer 's opinion , but this should be consider one of them . it be not an introductory text that will take you through english intonation in a systematic way . and the book 's ostensible main thesis , which concern the semantic interpretation of various intonation ' melody ' , be not its primary attraction , either . what it offer be a solid collection of valuable observation , in bit and piece , on english intonation . so i think that the best way to do justice to a book like this in a review be to simply pick out what i find to be some of the more interest point and condense them here , without too much additional commentary . * * * * * * * * intonation as a subfield of linguistics be still wide open to pioneer work . the author describe intonation as one of the ' most puzzle and idiosyncratic ' aspect of human speech within the sphere of language as behavior , and he point out the role of intonation in the 'd ynamism of discourse ' ( from the preface ) . unlike another work in this series recently review for linguist , taylor 's _ a phonetic model of intonation in english _ , this book focus mainly on * language * as we speak and hear it , rather than on mechanical - and often difficult-to - interpret - computer model , though computer record and analyze datum be also use to help analyze stretch of speech in this study . watt conclude that since instrumentation be far from infallible , and the human ear can also be quite subjective in what it hear , the most reliable method be to use auditory impression for the initial record of datum , and instrumentally collect datum as a supplement . the book start out with a useful introduction , in which term be define and goal set . the two section of the main body stress the development of a phonological and semantic model of intonation , respectively . these be divide into two chapter each , entitle ( part i ) : " the phonology of intonation " , and " tone in sequence " ; and ( part ii ) : " intonation and mean " , and " the semantic of phonological gradience " . two appendix of instrumental datum from record speech consist of select example take from halliday 's _ course in spoken english : intonation _ ( 1970 ) , and from a corpus compile by the author . the book conclude with 14 page of reference . the datum come from ' non-surreptitious ' but unmonitor , casual 'd iadic conversation ' between native speaker of ' educate standard toronto english ' - rather rare in a field where most of the work be base on british rp or standard us english . the author point out that the datum be not intend to contrast with those take from other variety of english ; his main goal be to achieve consistency in the speech form use . among the power and distance parameter of social and personal relation , the author choose for his datum collection ' equal ' , over 's uperordinate ' and 's ubordinate ' ; ' acquaint ' , as oppose to ' intimate ' or ' foreign ' ; and ' face-to - face ' rather than 'd istance ' ( i . e . phone conversation , subject to various kind of distortion , be exclude ) . intonation be a suprasegmental ( i . e . ' a feature whose domain extend over more than one segment ' ) feature of language , and the author adopt a _ prosodic _ ( ' the use of pitch contour to realize linguistic mean ' ) approach in analyze it . below follow some a few other term as watt use them in his study . _ tonality _ refer to the division of the message into phonological tone group or ' information unit ' ( iu ) . _ tonicity _ involve a process of locate the salient syllable in a tone group , the ' focal point of ideational mean in the information unit ; each group must contain at least one tonic syllable , which be locate at the onset of pitch movement associate with nuclear tone contour ' . _ tone _ refer to the selection of one of five simple or two compound tone contour that phonologically realize interpersonal meaning in the iu . particular tone choice can mediate speaker / hearer relation ( e . g . indicate the need for a response , change of turn , or continuation ) or mediate speaker-message relation : i . e . attitude toward a message , such as reservation , certainty or assertion ( pp . 18-20 ) . also define be _ paratone _ , a larger intonational unit , which cannot extend beyond a breath group ; and no larger intonational unit be find in this study . section one begin by propose that a theory of intonation must strive to make two different kind of description , namely , ( 1 ) a phonological one , which emphasize identification of nuclear tone and other refinement derive from instrumental analysis , and ( 2 ) a semantic description of the functional impetus responsible for motivate language behavior , which include tone sequence , intertonal relation , paratone , and connect speech . section one concentrate on ( 1 ) . watt describe _ simple tone _ - namely ( 1 ) simple fall , ( 2 ) simple high rise ( with fall-rise option ) , and ( 3 ) low rise - and _ complex tone _ , which consist of more than one pitch movement and be naturally more complicate . these be : ( 4 ) , which occur on the last two syllable of the final word of an utterance and reach the top level of pitch , then fall sharply , and ( 5 ) , which consist of a rise-fall movement , with the intensity on the rise . there be also _ compound tone _ , i . e . combination of simple tone fuse into a single tone group . there be two compound tone , 1 + 3 , and 5 + 3 . watt note that some researcher have propose a model of intonational mean similar to that of grammar , in which one compound tone be link with one particular mean or function . but intonation in fact do * not * function like this - intonation be a realization of * semantics * rather than syntax . the interpretation of intonation must be make within the context of grammar , but it be not link element by element to the syntax . as g . brown ( only first initial be give in the reference ) put it : ' the phonological resource for signal mean be far fewer than the semantic function which " exploit " them ' ( p . 73 ) . a notable pattern reveal by instrumental analysis of speak datum be _ downdrift _ , a decline of the fundamental frequency ( f0 ) over the span of short utterance for a wide range of language . it oscillate between the two extreme of an equally descend and slightly narrow bandwidth with sentence final fall and slight prolongation at the breath group boundary . the declination slope be not alway constant , but it can be a series of descend plateau , or set of declination line . this model be not as 's usceptible ' to error of datum interpretation as follow individual nuclear tone can be ( pp . 66-71 ) . section two concentrate on develop a semantic model of intonation , i . e . provide an initial account of mean often attribute to intonation . watt here advance his view that intonational mean can be derive both from phonological contrast of tone and tonicity and from the phonetic gradience characteristic of these contrast . there be less consistency in generalize the mean of intonation than with a phonological description of sound substance due to ( 1 ) the nature of intonation and ( 2 ) the variety of inference people draw from voice-relate cue . as member of a speech community , we make inference about what be mean both by what be say and how it be say . we must draw conclusion on discrete meaning from only * part * of the speech continuum ( and not include e . g . physical appearance of the speaker in our analysis ) . to deal with the semantics of intonation , you can take either a linguistic approach , in which you look at mean * contrast * and form-to - function correspondence , or you can take a psychological approach , in which ' polar cline ' be posit , e . g . bore v . interest , or timid v . confident ; watt address only the * linguistic * contribution of ' tonicity ' and ' tone ' ( p . 76 ff . ) . watt refer to halliday , who stress the ideation function of intonation , how it highlight information for specific attention , i . e . give v . new , also fresh v . contrast . the stress of new information be an outcome of 's peaker assess importance ' . the tonic of unmark utterance will tend to fall on the last lexical item of the tone group ; this result in a broad , ' unspecify ' focus ; this focus be narrow in a ' contrastive ' utterance ( p . 79 ) . intonation have an ' interpersonal metafunction ' by serve as a channel for linguistic expression of * attitude * , though it be not the only such channel . other channel include register and lexicon ; and sometime certain stylistic effect can be achieve by combine incongruous linguistic content and intonation , e . g . imagine ' put that goddam pipe away ! ' utter in a smile , gentle tone of voice . so the listener 's perception of the speaker 's attitude may be base on two or more signal combine ( p . 87 ) . intonation add information to disambiguate speech function . speech function be identify and interpret through the cumulative effect of contextual , morpho-syntactic and phonological cue ( p . 91 ) . it can include competition for turn ( an initiate peak can be use for this ) , initiate a topic ( mark by an initial peak of intensity and high pitch ) , continue ( upward drift ) , respond ( the second speaker approximate the relative pitch height of the baseline of the last utterance produce by the previous speaker , i . e . an accommodation of one speaker 's melodic pattern to that of another ) , terminate ( fall to the lowest level of the speaker 's voice range ; a termination often fall well above the baseline before its final fall ) , check function ( conversation monitor with sporadic check on the status of the conversation , i . e . check that the hearer understand , agree on the appropriateness of what be be express , and be still engage ; this be intend to elicit a response from the hearer , but usually involve no change of turn , e . g . ' be n't it ? ' , ' right ? ' , ' you know ' , ' eh ' ) , certainty ( speaker can indicate ' certainty know / absolute ' , ' certainty irrelevant / conditional ' , or ' certainty unknown / assume ' ) . watt point out that a major difficulty of do description of intonation be the inherently gradient characteristic of the speak medium . there be a gradient between the linguistic and the paralinguistic , as well as a division between what constitute a linguistic contrast and what signal a modification of the phonological cline within that contrast . watt offer a reveal quote from bolinger : ' the higher the rise , the greater the exasperation if it be a statement , the greater the surprise of curiosity if it be a question . the lower the fall the greater the certainty or finality if the utterance be a statement , and the greater the confidence if it be a question ' [ 1986 : 240 ] . that be , in watt 's own word : ' . . . the greater the degree of the rise , or the height of a give contour , the greater the strength of the contextual mean assume for that contour ' ( p . 109 ) . watt sum his work up nicely - and what he say could easily be apply to just about any worthy field of inquiry - in the final chapter thus : ' there be a certain fractal logic that seem to pervade the investigation of intonation . the more we magnify the field under scrutiny , in the hope of reach an explanation of its detail , the more we find new and unexpect detail in need of explanation . the deeper we probe into the next level of detail , the more difficult it become to extricate ourselve from its detail with a parsimonious description of the new possibility ' ( p . 121 ) . in addition to recap the highlight of his book in the conclusion , watt offer his vision for what his work have to contribute to the field in general , namely , a ' compatible point of departure from which to further the description of discourse ' ( p . 122 ) . he believe that accurate synthesize of intonation may possibly add to our knowledge about our auditory perception , and that can also help further develop our model of synthesize speech . * * * * * * * * although the book 's basic structure be clearly set out in the section and chapter title , the contents of each subdivision be diverse and often hard to incorporate into a coherent , linear narrative on intonation ; one must content oneself with the fragment one be able to latch onto . yet one have the feel that much be be say in this motley collection of idea , observation , and analysis , much more than in many other of the work on intonation available . and for this reason , the interest reader be advise to bear with the author , take note , and enjoy the ride . this book have a rather amateurish , low-budget look , perhap to be expect from university publication of this kind . the instrumental graph border by thick black outline and incorporate into the chapter in many place seem stuff in a little too close to the write text , though there be no problem of clarity . the text itself be set in a relatively large serif typeface , which make for comfortable read , though occasionally some startlingly inconsistent type size turn up . new concept ( e . g . _ paratone _ , _ concord _ ) appear in bold and be easily spot . minor typo appear here and there . the diy look of the design be not a serious flaw , though , for anyone after unalloy content , of which you get plenty in this book . overall , this be a worthwhile and rather refresh book for someone seriously interest in intonation . the reader have better be ready , however , to invest a bite of work to mine it of its wealth . review by karen steffen chang , department of foreign language and literature , national taiwan university , taipeus .
