Subject: special issue jetai

call for papers journal of experimental and theoretical artificial intelligence special issue on memory-based language processing memory - base language process ( mblp ) view language process as be base on the direct reuse of previous experience rather than on the use of abstraction extract from that experience . in such a framework , language acquisition be model as the storage of exemplar , and language process as similarity-base reason . mblp derive from work in artificial intelligence ( case-base reason , memory-base reason , instance-base learn , lazy learn ) , linguistic ( analogical model ) , computational linguistic ( example-base machine translation , case-base language process , data-orient parse ) , and statistical pattern recognition ( k-nn model ) . in recent research , it have be show that the application of algorithm base on this framework lead to accurate and efficient language model in diverse language process area ( phonology , morphology , syntax , semantics , discourse ) . we invite theoretical papers on model , algorithm and metric for memory-base language process , and empirical study compare mblp variant to each other or to alternative non-memory - base approach for specific language process task . time table deadline for submission : september 1 , 1998 notification deat : november 1 , 1998 deadline for final version : january 1 , 1999 special issue : summer or autumn 1999 instruction for author : 1 . the original manuscript and three clear copy should be submit to : walter daeleman ( guest editor ) ilk research group , computational linguistic tilburg university warandelaan 2 5037 gc tilburg build b , room 307 the netherland + 31 13 4663070 ( phone ) + 31 13 4663110 ( fax ) walter . daeleman @ kub . nl all papers will be referee by at least three reviewer . 2 . all papers must be in english . the entire manuscript should be type on one side only of plain paper , either a4 or 8 . 5 x 11 inch , with double space use throughout . 3 . the first page of the manuscript should carry the title , the name , institutional address , and institutional telephone number of the author , and a short title of no more than 50 character ( include space ) to be use as a run head . the second page of the manuscript should carry an abstract of about 200 word . the remainder of the text should not exceed 30 double space page , include reference but exclude figure and table . all figure and table must be refer to by number in the text . 4 . an original set of professional quality figure should accompany the manuscript . line draw may be indium ink original or glossy print . halftone illustration must be submit as glossy print . illustration cannot be print in color . 5 . table should be type on separate page , which should accompany the text . 6 . the text should be write in third person to facilitate blind review . the name of the author or their institution should appear only on the title page . 7 . the name-date style should be use for all reference . all author ' name should be include in the reference list . journal name should not be abbreviate . inclusive page number must be give for all reference to article in journal , proceedings volumes , or book . with the exception of thesis or dissertation , unpublish work should not be include as reference . 8 . footnote may not be use . endnote may be use if necessary ; they should be collect on separate sheet at the end of the text . 9 . fifty free offprint will be provide to the first author of each paper . there will be no page charge .
