Subject: 2nd workshop on interlingua cfp

second workshop on interlinguas : call for papers from text to representation : second workshop on interlinguas tuesday , october 27 , 1998 ( precede the amta 98 conference ) sheraton buck county hotel , langhorne , pennsylvanium [ http : / / crl . nmsu . edu / event / fwoi / secondworkshop / index . html ] the focus of this workshop will be a multi-lingual text and the task of represent aspect of that text use an interlingual representation ( il ) . the format be mean to encourage concrete discussion on how ils handle particular challenge , include , but not limit to , representation of : basic predicate / argument structure noun phrase / referent proper noun prepositional mean non-literal language temporal relation textual organization lexical divergence syntactic divergence submitter be invite to select some aspect or section of the text , in a single language , or a language pair / set , and submit a short position paper , describe the il representation for that aspect . in addition to provide concrete il representation and term ( ontological entity / atom ) , submitter be encourage to focus also on the reason why one would choose to define these particular term , and the justification for define in a particular way the relation , slot , and filler of the term . paper should define the aspect to be discuss , identify instance in the text , provide a representation for these instance , and categorize the instance accord to the treatment propose . the papers will be collect and publish as the proceedings of the workshop . submission of end-to - end output of an il system ( include and identify relevant hand-craft element ) be especially encourage . submission could also propose theoretical justification for a particular framework , in particular how the build block of the system work in handle an aspect of the text . the workshop itself will consist of panel organize around the representational aspect select by the participant . the panel presentation will be supplement by period for general discussion and other activity . ideally , the result of the workshop will be - in some case , a consistent set of il expression for the various problematic issue raise by the text and - in other case , a clearer delineation of ( 1 ) how the various problematic issue in the text be treat in different ils and ( 2 ) the fundamental difference in approach that motivate these different il treatment . a final product of the workshop will be an outline of the issue discuss in determine whether combine il approach be possible and / or desirable . these result will provide a basis for further workshop . the multi-lingual text will be available at http : / / crl . nmsu . edu / event / fwoi / secondworkshop / text . html in gloss english , french , spanish , chinese , arabic , german , russian , persian , italian , catalan , vietnamese , malay , greek , bulgarian , tamil , and portuguese version , as they become available . notice of interest in participation : july 10 , 1998 ( to shelmreus @ crl . nmsu . edu ) ( please identify specifically what aspect of il representation you intend to address ) position paper submission : august 10 , 1998 notification : september 10 , 1998 final copy of papers : october 10 , 1998 workshop : october 27 , 1998 submission may be in print or electronic form ( latex , framemaker ) , but should follow acl style sheet ( available at http : / / www . c . columbium . edu / ~ acl / home . html ) . submission should be send to : stephen helmreich compute research laboratory new mexico state university po box 30001 / 3crl las cruce , nm 88003 ( usa ) phone : ( 505 ) 646-2141 fax : ( 505 ) 646-6218 e-mail : shelmreus @ crl . nmsu . edu the registration fee for the conference be $ 50 . non - presenter will be accept on a first-come , first serve basis . a copy of the registration form be available at : http : / / crl . nmsu . edu / event / fwoi / secondworkshop / registration . html
