Subject: new book : bilingualism

john benjamin publish would like to call your attention to the follow new title in the field of language acquisition : government and code switching explaining american finnish helena halmarus 1997 xvus , 276 pp . study in bilingualism , 12 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 546 x price : us $ 89 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 4118 x price : hfl . 178 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com bilingual codeswitch be a complex , multifacet phenomenon , which call for explanation on several different linguistic level . this volume focus on one such level : the level of syntax . an explanation for the regularity and consistency in the codeswitch pattern of american finn in their spontaneous conversation be seek for in the universal grammar - base principle of government as realize in case-assignment and agreement relation . a bulk of the finnish - english intrasentential datum get their explanation on the structural , hierarchical level , but this level of syntax be find to be interestingly intertwine with sociolinguistic , psycholinguistic , and discourse level , which all contribute to variation in codeswitch pattern . the propose principle of government be see as one important explanation in typologically certain kind of language pair such as finnish and english ; however , this principle be not treat as a monolithic constraint , bur rather as the lead tendency which be occasionally override by other than syntactic force . the volume be intend as a complement - not as a contradiction - to earlier explanation of codeswitch phenomenon . it main message be : while all linguistic level contribute to the construction of bilingual speech , the importance of syntax can not be ignore . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - bernadette martinez - keck tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / market fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamin north america e-mail : bernie @ benjamin . com po box 27519 philadelphium pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamin web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com
