Subject: 1999 genetic and evolutionary computation

invitation to become a member of the program committee for the 1999 genetic and evolutionary computation conference ( gecco-99 ) http : / / www-illigal . ge . uiuc . edu / gecco / greeting : the 1999 genetic and evolutionary computation conference ( gecco ) would like to invite recent author of papers relate to genetic and evolutionary computation ( gec ) to become member of the program committee of the gecco conference to be hold on july 13-17 , 1999 in orlando , florida . as you may know , the 1999 genetic and evolutionary computation conference ( gecco ) will be a combine meet of the eighth international conference on genetic algorithm ( icga ) and the fourth annual genetic program conference ( gp ) in cooperation with the american association for artificial intelligence ( aaai ) , parallel problem solve from nature ( ppsn ) steer committee , the international conference on evolvable system ( ices ) steer committee , and other organization and conference to be announce . gecco will be hold in lieu of icga-99 and gp-99 , and as such , it combine the oldest continuously run gec conference , and the two largest gec conference . we believe that the gecco conference in 1999 will be a unique opportunity to bring together an exceptionally large number of people from all facet of genetic and evolutionary computation . bee on the program committee will involve read , review , and rank about half a dozen submit papers on genetic and evolutionary computation or relate area during the month of february 1999 . ( the paper submission deadline for gecco-99 be wednesday , january 27 , 1999 ) . the willingness of active contributor to help the conference in this way be absolutely critical to the success of gecco . in the past , some have complain that their point of view have be exclude from the review process . by agree to join us , active gec researcher will help make the gecco review process fair , open , and broadly participatory . as part of the charter establish this conference , extraordinary step have be take to ensure that ( 1 ) review representation be exceptionally broad and ( 2 ) the tradition , norm , and standard of the different flavor of gec be respect . let us take a brief moment to explain how this will be do . first , the charter of the conference say that reviewer be automatically invite base on their recent contribution of a peer-review publication : a person may be a reviewer for the conference if he or she be an author of at least one peer-review paper in a journal , conference proceedings book , or collect book of papers publish since january 1 , 1995 involve any aspect or combination of aspect of [ genetic and ] evolutionary computation . thus , become a reviewer be even-handedly base on recency of peer-review contribution . second , gecco explicitly recognize and respects the different tradition of different sub-field within gec and relate discipline . as such , the conference have establish six different track each with its own chair / editor : 1 . evolution strategy / evolutionary program ( es / ep ) . a . e . eiben , gusz @ wus . leidenuniv . nl 2 . genetic algorithm / classifier system ( ga / cs ) . robert e . smith , rsmith @ btc . uwe . ac . uk 3 . genetic program / evolvable hardware ( gp / eh ) . wolfgang banzhaf ( also proceeding editor - in - chief ) , banzhaf @ ls11 . informatik . uni-dortmund . de 4 . artificial life , adaptive behavior , and agent ( aaa ) . vasant honavar , honavar @ c . iastate . edu 5 . dna and molecular compute ( dna / mc ) . max h . garzon , mgarzon @ memphi . edu 6 . real - world application ( rwa ) . mark jakielum , mjj @ mecf . wustl . edu these separate " deme " will establish separate rule and standard for paper acceptance base on the practice within the sub-discipline . in this way , we hope to more closely group " bird of a feather " and thereby avoid the rejection of high quality papers by reviewer who be less than familiar with the standard that should apply to a particular kind of paper . with this kind of carefully construct process , we believe that a large number of recent gec author will choose to join the program committee . if you be will to be a member ( reviewer ) of the program committee , please email gecco @ aaaus . org ( note : please do not use a " reply " command to respond to this message since dave goldberg will be out of town for most of june ) and send the follow information : ( 1 ) the exact way you want your name list , ( 2 ) the institutional affiliation you want list with your name , ( 3 ) your physical mail address , ( 4 ) your phone number ( for courier address label ) , ( 5 ) your prefer e-mail address , ( 6 ) which of the six committee you would like to join ( gp / eh , ga / cs , or es / ep , aaa , dna / mc , or rwa ) , and if you have a preference for one of the sub-category within that committee ( gp and / or eh , ga and / or cs , es and / or ep , alife and / or adaptive behavior and / or agent , dna and / or mc ) . ( 7 ) the title , date , and publication name of a peer-review gec or relate paper ( publish after january 1 , 1995 ) that qualify you as a member of the gecco committee ( a complete citation be unnecessary ) . author who choose to join the gecco program committee will be acknowledge in the conference proceedings as well as in various edition of the call for papers , the conference brochure , and advertise . physical copy of the papers will be send to reviewer by ups courier service in late january 1999 , and the review form will be send by e-mail . reviewer will be give several week to read and review the papers . review be return by e-mail directly to the aaai . the reviewer 's name be remove from the message by the aaai before the review be forward to the chair of the appropriate track and ( eventually ) the submit author . if a reviewer 's physical mail address or e-mail address change between now and february 1999 , the conference office ( gecco @ aaaus . org ) should be notify as soon as possible . although the conference be over a year away , we already have an outstand lineup of chair , editor , senior member , and tutorial speaker ( see http : / / www-illigal . ge . uiuc . edu / gecco / ) . the editor / chair have already be mention , but among those join us as senior committee member be thoma baeck , han - georg beyer , michael conrad , ingo rechenberg , guenter rudolph , bir bhanu , bill p . buckle , runweus cheng , marco colombettus , herbert dawid , marco dorigo , emanuel falkenauer , mitsuo gen , randy l . haupt , sue ellen haupt , john h . holland , kim f . man , dirk c . mattfeld , zbigniew michalewicz , melanie mitchell , k . s . tang , michael d . vose , david andre , vladan babovic , forrest h bennett iii , tobia blickle , dimitri c . dracopoulo , frank d . francone , andrea geyer - schulz , wolfgang a . halang , hitoshus iba , christian jacob , martin keane , robert e . keller , john r . koza , sbe kwong , w . b . langdon , peter nordin , and moshe sipper . among those join us for an extensive offer of tutorial be rik belew , forrest h bennett iii , lawrence davi , kalyanmoy deb , ken dejong , stephanie forrest , max garzon , tetsuya higuchus , john r . koza , w . b . langdon , jean - arcady meyer , melanie mitchell , randy c . murphy , peter nordin , i . c . parmee , guenter rudolph , han - paul schwefel , leigh tesfatsion , michael vose , darrell whitley , and stewart wilson . other workshop and tutorial proposal as well as idea for invite speaker and other activity may be send to the business committee ( deg @ uiuc . edu or koza @ c . stanford . edu ) . as active researcher ourselve , we understand that it be difficult to take time away from research for the " administrivium " of the review process . but researcher be often the first to complain when their conference be guide by " political " not " scientific " consideration . therefore we ask that all qualify committee candidate take this invitation very seriously , and we urge you to step up to the plate to make sure that the technical content of this conference be guide by our field 's active contributor ( qualify reviewer should send an email with the request information above to gecco @ aaaus . org ; please do not use a " reply " command to answer this message ) . names of reviewers who respond before july 1 , 1999 will be published in the first call for papers . moreover , we issue a special invitation to past author to consider submit to gecco 99 . although gecco be a new entity it be the combine of the oldest and the two largest , high-quality conference in the field of genetic and evolutionary computation . with six separate deme for different style of work and a participatory review process , we expect an unusually author-friendly conference . additionally , past attendance at icga and gp suggest that we should have over 600 researcher in attendance , but we will take step to make sure that there be plenty of time for face-to - face meet and interaction as well . in short , we believe that gecco-99 will be a special event for the community of genetic and evolutionary computation . we hope you can take the time to join us in the review process and we welcome your paper submission , but in any event we look forward to see you in orlando , july 13-17 , 1999 at gecco-99 . thank you , david e . goldberg ( illinoi ) gecco-99 conference chair and business committee and john r . koza ( stanford ) gecco-99 business committee note : again , please do not use a " reply " command to answer this message . instead , respond to gecco @ aaaus . org for fastest handle .
