Subject: third international icsc symposium

third international icsc symposium on intelligent industrial automation ( iia ' 99 ) http : / / www . icsc . ab . ca / iia99 . htm and soft computing ( soco ' 99 ) http : / / www . icsc . ab . ca / soco99 . htm june 1 - 4 , 1999 at the palazzo ducale in genova , italy introduction the international symposium on intelligent industrial automation ( iia ' 99 ) and soft compute ( soco ' 99 ) intend to encompass short-to - long-term effect of advance information technology , soft compute and other relate ' intelligent technolgy ' in application field such as industrial automation , control , diagnostic , computer vision , robotic , speech recognition and machine translation . the general aim of the symposium be to address and underline the exist and emerge relationship between automation , manufacture and intelligent technolgy , with particular emphasis on soft compute . contribution be seek on intelligent automation and manufacture with emphasis on current and potential application , with a broad interest in all the engineer discipline , computer science and relate technology field . follow the success of iia / soco ' 96 ( read , england ) and iia / soco ' 97 ( nme , france ) , the third symposium will be hold in genova , italy . the iia / soco series have establish themselve as a platform for scientist and practitioner from academic , governmental and industrial institution to discuss new development and result in the field of intelligent technology . a further follow-up conference have already be schedule for the year 2001 in paisley , scotland . purpose of iia ' 99 and soco ' 99 advance in soft compute and relate technique : theory and application . ait ( advance information technology ) be one of the major technological driver in the advancement of modern society . nowaday any major achievement , relate to any field of research , be strongly support by proper ait base tool . very often , such achievement have only be possible after a proper ait approach have be design and implement . it be widely know that ait have a very strong impact on society itself , radically change the skill and competency require in order to contribute to the everyday human environment . given that nowaday the major effort in ait development be spend in the so call ' soft - compute ' arena and that some of the major and indeed , surprise , achievement in industrial application come from the application of soft-compute technique , the two symposium ( iia ' 99 and soco ' 99 ) will have many common area of interest , namely : - neural network - fuzzy logic - genetic algorithm - chao theory - ai and expert system - machine learn - pattern recognition and image understand the program of the two conference will , however , reflect different theme : - iia ' 99 will be direct toward the medium-to - short term , application drive , research area in intelligent technology . - soco ' 99 be direct toward the long term research in area of soft compute in order to try to overcome the usual borderline exist between theory and application , the two symposium be run jointly , organize in a way to have partial overlap with some join session and some common plenary session . aim of iia ' 99 / soco ' 99 1 . to give both a wide and a deep view of advance in ait advancement offer by soft-compute technology . 2 . to give both the industrial and academic researcher the opportunity to discuss together real problem and opportunity . 3 . to collect ' best practice ' and information on how to perform experiment , test and design product and process embed and / or use soft-compute technology . 4 . to explicitly and actively function as a ' technology broker ' , give the opportunity for people to become aware of new problem and possible solution and give the possibility of find technological partner for join research and / or future application program . topics of iia ' 99 iia ' 99 will include contribution in the research area of soft compute application and , more in general , relate to medium-to - short term and application drive development advance information technology and industrial intelligent technology . particular emphasis will be lay on industrial realization , experimental application , application methodology development and / or formalization , quantitative and qualitative problem model . contribution be seek mainly in the area base on the list below : a ) industrial area - industry - energy - transportation - service - consumer - etc . b ) high - tech area - innovative control and diagnostic - computer vision - robotic and remote sense - speech recognition and machine translation - etc . c ) green - tech area - intelligent resource management - intelligent pollutant management - user behavior modele - intelligent traffic control - etc . topics of soco ' 99 soco ' 99 will include contribution on long term research ( theory development , enhance approach , formal method comparison , application , etc . ) in the area of soft-compute . contribution be seek in area base on the list below , which be indicative only . - neural network - fuzzy logic - rough set - genetic algorithm and evolutionary compute - chao theory - ai and expert system - probabilistic reason - machine learn - learn algorithm and intelligent control - pattern recognition and image understand - distribute intelligence - self - organize system - fuzzy database and information retrieval - educational aspect of soft compute special session a special session on ' intelligent system in control and process optimization ' include a plenary lecture be sponsor by the ifs network and organize by alberto servida , italy . contribution be welcome . conference location the symposium will be hold at the palazzo ducale , a beautiful historic build in the city centre of genova , italy sponsors iia ' 99 and soco ' 99 be sponsor by : - ansaldo s . p . a . - disi - department of computer and information science at the university of genoa , italy - commune dus genova , italy - university of genova , italy - cybernetic and biophysic national group of the national research council - ieee neural network council italian regional interest group - international neural network society and inns special interest group italy - thematic network ifs ( intelligent forecast system for refinery and power system ) - icsc international computer science convention , canada / switzerland iia ' 99 symposium committee - honorary chair yutaka kuwahara , r & d centre , hitachus europe ltd . - symposium chair riccardo parentus , ansaldo ricerche , genova , italy - symposium vice chair colin fyfe , university of paisley , scotland , u . k . - scientific secretary carlum penno , ansaldo ricerche , genova , italy - international scientific committee roberto barattus , italy zeungnam bien , korea piero bonissone , usa pierre borne , france han - heinrich bothe , switzerland / germany abhay bulsarus , finland daniele caviglium , italy vincent chapurlat , france raja chatilum , france richard d . colbaugh , usa anna maria collum , italy clarence w . de silva , canada h . a . donegan , u . k . jo r . dorronsorro , spain patrick gallinarus , france edoardo gilardus , italy madan m . gupta , canada henry h . hexmoor , usa r . j . howlett , u . k charle mclean , usa antony a . maciejewskus , usa janine magnier , france franco masullus , italy fazel naghdy , australium saeid nahavandus , australium charle c . nguyen , usa david pearson , france duc t . pham , u . k . brian roffel , netherland alberto servida , italy peter vas , u . k . leonello zaquinus , italy jacek m . zurada , usa soco ' 99 symposium committee - honorary chair antonio dus nolum , university dus napolus federico ii , naple , italy - symposium chair francesco masullus , university of genoa , italy - symposium vice chair colin fyfe , university of paisley , scotland , u . k . - international scientific committee henry abarbanel , usa ethem alpaydin , turkey peter g . anderson , usa valeriu beiu , usa gerardo benus , usa franco bignone , italy freimut bodendorf , germany andrej dobnikar , slovenium marco dorigo , belgium gerard dray , france marco gorus , italy han hellendoorn , netherland laszlo koczy , hungary mohammad jamshidus , usa jame keller , usa bart kosko , usa ludmilum kuncheva , u . k . franz kurfess , usa sadaakus miyamoto , japan claudio moraga , germany pietro morasso , italy francesco carlo morabito , italy david w . pearson , france rjean plamondon , canada henrik saxen , finland george d . smith , u . k . nigel steele , u . k . leonard studer , switzerland yoshinorus uesaka , japan call for papers prospective author be request to send a draft paper ( maximum 7 page ) for review by the international scientific committee . all submission must be write in english , start with a succinct statement of the problem , the result achieve , their significance and a comparison with previous work , as well as a list of reference . the submission should also include : - title of conference ( soco ' 99 or iia ' 99 ) - type of paper ( regular , demonstration , tutorial or invite ) - title of propose paper - author name , affiliation , address - name of author to contact for correspondence - e - mail address and fax # of contact author - topic which best describe the paper ( max . 5 keyword ) - short c . v . of author contribution be welcome from those work in industry and have experience in the topic of this symposium as well as from academic . symposium language be english . invite session , tutorial papers , demonstration and contribution to the special session on ' intelligent system in control and process optimization ' be also encourage . submission of papers submission must be send by september 10 , 1998 either by - electronic mail ( recommend ) to operate @ icsc . ab . ca ( text , postscript or word file ) or - fax to icsc canada + 1-403 - 387-4329 or - airmail ( 2 copy ) to : icsc canada p . o . box 279 millet , ab t0c 1z0 canada important dates submission of draft paper : september 10 , 1998 notification of acceptance : november 30 , 1998 delivery of final paper : january 31 , 1999 tutorial and workshop : june 1 , 1999 iia ' 99 / soco ' 99 symposium : june 2 - 4 , 1999 further information for more detail information , please consult the follow website : - iia ' 99 : http : / / www . icsc . ab . ca / iia99 . htm - soco ' 99 : http : / / www . icsc . ab . ca / soco99 . htm or forward any question to the conference organizer mailto : operate @ icsc . ab . ca conference organizer icsc international computer science convention p . o . box 279 millet , alberta t0c 1z0 canada email : mailto : operate @ icsc . ab . ca url : http : / / www . icsc . ab . ca fax : + 1-403 - 387-4329 ( after january 25 , 1999 : + 1-780 - 387-4329 ) phone : + 1-403 - 387-3546 ( after january 25 , 1999 : + 1-780 - 387-3546 )
