Subject: anglo - american study

first announcement and call for paper for the 1999 issue of op . cit . : a journal of anglo - american study , publish by apeaa , the portuguese association for anglo - american study modernism and postmodernism in english study : account for the century the 20th century have witness the growth , development and border-crossing of english study as a major , complex , multidisciplinary , multicultural field . alongside ( not seldom in dialogue and confrontation with ) the establish english of literary study , for many decade dominant in many way and place , also language and culture study have , with their various discipline , method and perspective , move centre-stage and re-shap , re-define , and re-orientate the field . it be the history of english study in the century now draw to its close that op . cit . : a journal of anglo - american study invite prospective contributor to focus on and study : its significant chapter , individual author and intellectual formation , period and theoretical constellation ; its disciplinary , interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary mode and approach , its dominant , residual and emergent strategy and discourse ; its establish and new linguistic code ( english v . english ) ; its horizon , mapping and accent ; its institutionally constitute scholarship ( s ) and its innovative project . the theme propose , modernism and postmodernism in english study : account for the century , offer one version of the narrative of beginning , transition and change in english study in our century , one start point for analysis , and one opportunity for alternative version . deadline for 2 - 3 , 0 - word position and 7 - 8 , 0 - word papers : sept . 30 , 1998 . submission in diskette and two hard copy . op . cit . be a referee journal . all contribution should be submit anonymously ( author 's name and address , and full title of the article on a separate sheet ) for more information contact alvaro pina , editor , ferpus @ mail . telepac . pt carlo a . m . gouveium , assistant editor , carlosmg @ fc . ul . pt material mail address : prof . alvaro pina ( or prof . carlo a . m . gouveium ) depto estudo anglstico , faculdade de letra , universidade de lisboa cidade universitarium 1699 lisboa codex , portugal fax no . + 351 - 1-7960063 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - carlo a . m . gouveium dept . estudo anglistico faculdade de letra da univ . de lisboa cidade universitarium 1699 lisboa codex portugal fax : ( 351 ) ( 1 ) 796 0 63 e-mail : carlosmg @ fc . ul . pt
