Subject: review massaro 1998

massaro , d . w . ( 1998 ) . perceive talk face : from speech perception to a behavioral principle ( mit press , cambridge , mass . ) . 552 pp . , 212 illus . , 1 cd-rom . $ 55 . 0 . review byl noel nguyen , laboratory for psycholinguistic , fpse , university of geneva , switzerland ( nnguyen @ fapse . unige . ch ) . 1 synopsis 1 . 1 general outline this book be concern with how multiple source of information be process in speech perception and , more generally , in pattern recognition . it be base upon an important research programme conduct by massaro and his colleague over the last two decade . the book focus on the perception of so-cal bimodal speech , address a wide range of issue about the way in which visual information ( as provide by the speaker 's face ) and auditory information be combine with each other by the perceptual system . the scope of the book be much larger , however , as massaro 's purpose here be to describe and defend a new psychological law relevant to a wide variety of domain . in contrast to already well-establish law of the same kind ( e . g . weber 's law of perception ) , which be all unidimensional , the new principle be multidimensional , in that it describe how several factor impact behaviour . this principle be embody in a computational model of pattern recognition , the fuzzy logical model of perception ( flmp ) , whose latest version be present and discuss in detail . the flmp be systematically contrast with alternative computational model , use a broad perceptual database as benchmark throughout the book . in a separate part , the book also deal with method for synthesize talk face in experiment on bimodal speech perception , and introduce baldus , the talk face develop by massaro and his coworker . the book be accompany by a cd-rom which contain a series of demonstration relate to many of the topic deal with . the book be divide into four main section . section 1 , " perceive talk face " , focus on the perception of speech by ear and eye . massaro review the most significant empirical finding in that domain , discuss the main methodological issue , and present a general classification of the exist computational model of bimodal speech perception . central to this section be the idea that speech perception obey a general behavioural principle of integration between different source of information . section 2 , " broaden the domain " , aim at assess how well this principle hold up across broad individual and situational variability . the author demonstrate that inter-individual variation in how bimodal speech be perceive , depend on the listener 's age or native language for instance , can be account for within the flmp framework . using example take from different perceptual and cognitive situation , massaro also defend the idea that the flmp adequately describe information process irrespective of these situational difference . section 3 , " broaden the framework " , open with a presentation of an extend and more explicit version of the flmp , design in particular to account for the dynamics of speech process . the section also include a detail analysis of the methodological issue involve in assess quantitative prediction in psychology , along with a discussion of the critique express by other investigator about the flmp over the year . finally , section 4 , " creat talk face " , be specifically dedicate to the synthesis of visual speech . 1 . 2 the new behavioural principle although many reader may already be familiar with massaro 's fuzzy logical model of perception , i shall here assume the contrary , and proceed to present a brief outline of the model . a central assumption of the flmp be that pattern recognition involve a common set of process regardless of the specific nature of the pattern . speech be not see as be associate with a dedicate process module , as in the motor theory of speech perception ( liberman , 1996 ) for instance . on the contrary , the sensory information be assume to be process in the same way whether our brain be busy recognize speech sound , letter , or manual gesture , to take but a few example . in any of these case , the flmp postulate that map a stimulus into a unique perceptual category entail go through three main stage of process , the feature evaluation stage , the feature integration stage , and the decision stage . the evaluation stage consist of convert the available source of information into a set of property refer to as feature . each feature be give a continuous ( fuzzy truth ) value , and represent the degree to which the stimulus correspond to each of a set of internal prototypical pattern , along a particular perceptual dimension . thus , one important visual feature in the perception of cv syllable be the degree of open of the lip . the model therefore assume that the internal prototype available to the perceptual system will specify that the lip be open at the onset of the syllable for / da / , close for / ba / , etc . in a second stage , the feature be integrate with each other , so as to determine the overall degree of match of the sensory input with each of the prototype ( e . g . each of the syllable know to the receiver ) . in the third and final stage , a decision be take , on the basis of the relative goodness of match of the input with each prototype . the flmp make a number of specific assumption at each stage in this process . first , it hypothesize that all of the available source of information be simultaneously bring into play in pattern recognition . thus , visible speech and auditory speech be both assume to have an influence on how bimodal speech be perceive . second , different source of information be assume to be evaluate independently of each other . this means for example that visible speech do not have any effect on how auditory speech be convert into a set of feature , the two source of information be combine at a later stage of process only . the model also make specific assumption about how source of information be integrate with each other ( multiplicative rule ) , and about how decision be take ( relative goodness rule ) . a major prediction of the model be that " the influence of one source of information be greatest when the other source be neutral or ambiguous " ( 19 ) . this prediction be best illustrate by an experiment whose result serve as a database for test model of pattern recognition on several occasion in the book ( chapter 2 and 11 ) . in this experiment , synthetic auditory stimulus rang on a continuum between / ba / and / da / be cross with visual stimulus also vary between / ba / and / da / . the bimodal stimulus be present to subject in a forced-choice identification task , along with each of the unimodal stimulus . ( this expand factorial design be show by massaro to be the most appropriate experimental design for determine how two source of information be combine with each other in pattern recognition . ) for the bimodal stimulus , the main result be typically depict as a two-factor plot , with the proportion of / da / response on the ordinate , the level of the auditory source of information on the abscissa , and a different curve for each of the level of the visual source of information . when represent in that way , the result clearly show a statistical interaction between the two source of information . specifically , the influence of one source of information prove to be larger in the middle , ambiguous range of the other source . this interaction graphically take the shape of an american football , which be for this reason present throughout the book as the hallmark of the the fuzzy logical model of perception . in summary , massaro propose a universal principle of perceptual cognitive performance to explain pattern recognition . accord to this principle , " people be influence by multiple source of information in a diverse set of situation . in many case , these source of information be ambiguous and any particular source alone do not usually specify the appropriate interpretation . the perceiver appear to evaluate the multiple source of information in parallel for the degree to which each support various interpretation , integrate them together to derive the overall support for each interpretation , assess the support of each alternative base on all of the alternative , and select the most appropriate response . " ( p . 291 ) . 2 critical evaluation 2 . 1 general evaluation this book be clearly a major contribution to the study of speech perception and , more generally , to cognitive psychology . it be admirably clear and be write in quite an elegant manner . i do not doubt that the book will be read with great interest by research scientist from many different field . this work be the result of an ambitious intellectual endeavour aim at introduce a new behavioural law , which be place by massaro on an equal foot with weber 's law of perception , or the power law of learn . speech scientist be present with an extensive series of experiment on the perception of bimodal speech . whatever stance they take in that domain , they should find quite challenge massaro 's view that speech perception constitute but one aspect of a much more general form of cognitive process , namely pattern recognition . computer scientist work in the field of speech technology should be particularly interest in the book 's final section about the synthesis of visual speech . regardless of their background , reader should also find the book worth use as a tutorial on the experimental method available for investigate speech perception . a great variety of experimental paradigm and task be discuss at length by massaro , who also extensively discuss the method for assess computational model of pattern recognition and , in particular , for fit these model to observe result . in that respect , use the result of the experiment describe above as a reference database be quite a good initiative in my view , as this allow the reader more easily to understand massaro 's point as new issue be raise , without have again to go through the detail of the experimental design each time . the book should also prove an invaluable resource for teach . cbe be take to select prototypical result , as well as to set this work in its historical context . a number of rather fascinate anecdote and historical reference be give , go from mcgurk 's personal account of the discovery of the mcgurk effect , to an audio-visual rendition of the introduction to george miller 's seminal article on the ubiquitousness of the number 7 plus or minus 2 , with miller 's face texture-map onto baldus 's wire-frame head . the cd-rom that accompany the book enable the reader directly to experience the psychological illusion associate with the perception of bimodal speech , and constitute as such a most useful research and teach tool . on the negative side , massaro 's use of the / ba / - / da / experiment as a lead strand throughout obviously result in the book be focus on the perception of non-sense syllable . although the interaction of visible speech and audible speech in word recognition be mention on a number of occasion ( e . g . pp 21-23 and pp . 181-182 ) , the book contain few suggestion as to how we perceive isolate word , let alone connect speech . i also be surprise by the fact that little place be devote to present other current theory and model of speech perception . although model such as trace be mention on several occasion in the book , i think it be fair to say that the flmp be still give the lion 's share . the book also have some minor defect such as the absence of a list of figure , and the fact that some of the cd-rom band ( 1 . 4 , 1 . 5 and 1 . 6 ) be refer to incorrectly in the text . the list of the cd-rom selection should have point to the page where each band be refer to . in another domain , it would have be quite interest to have the perceptual database use in the book make available on the cd-rom . although this would have probably require a substantial amount of additional work , i should also have find it useful to be provide with an interactive version of the main computational model discuss in the book ( flmp , the race model , the single channel model , etc . ) . the flmp model can be download from massaro 's laboratory web site at santa cruz ( http : / / mambo . ucsc . edu ) , but it be currently distribute in fortran code which have to be modify and recompile for each new set of datum , an operation which be probably out of reach of many student in psychology or linguistics . 2 . 2 specific comment i be not familiar with all of the area deal with in this book , and will not hide the fact that this review be bias toward my own interest , namely the production and perception of auditory speech . the follow comment more specifically concentrate on two issue relate to this area of research , the role of feature in speech process and the time course of speech process . 2 . 2 . 1 feature most useful be the extensive comment make by massaro about the status of feature in his model ( see in particular chapter 2 and chapter 10 ) . i long have find it difficult to determine how close these feature be to classical phonetic feature . the book make it clear to me that there be no direct relation between the former and the latter . as indicate above , the flmp postulate that there be three main stage of process in pattern recognition : the feature evaluation stage , the feature integration stage , and the decision stage . specific assumption be make in the model about how feature be integrate with each other , and how a decision be take depend on the outcome of this integration . from a set of feature value , therefore , the model will predict the probability of occurrence of each possible response ( e . g . " ba " and " da " ) . however , attention should be pay to the fact that these feature value be in no way derive from the stimulus . they be actually determine in an posteriorus manner , from the subject ' observe response , use an algorithm ( stepit ) which allow the deviation between these response and the predict one to be minimal . feature be see in the model as * free parameter * , whose value be set on the basis of the actual performance of the subject in the pattern recognition task , so as to make the model perform at its best , i . e . to maximize its goodness of fit . accord to massaro , " [ the model be ] * predict * the exact * form * of the result , but * postdict * the actual quantitative * value * that make up the overall prediction " ( p . 294 , his emphasis ) . in other word , the stimulus be on no occasion explicitly map onto the internal feature of the flmp model . in that respect , feature as define in the flmp look markedly different from phonetic feature . let us take for example the opposition between / ba / and / da / , on which much emphasis be put in the book . acoustically , / b / and / d / be say to differ from each other accord to the feature grave-acute , / b / be classify as grave and / d / as acute . as be the case with flmp feature , grave and acute can be view as target value refer to prototypical stop . however , the grave-acute feature be explicitly define in acoustical term ( e . g . slope of the short-term spectrum at the release of the stop , see steven & blumstein , 1978 ) . on the contrary , the exact nature of the flmp feature remains undetermine , their value be subject to one main constraint which be to make the model account for the subject ' response as accurately as possible . thus , the acoustic structure of the stimulus be not directly take into consideration in the estimation of the feature value . in the experiment use audible speech , flmp feature do lend themselve to an acoustic interpretation . in the / ba / - / da / experiment for example , the prototype for / ba / and / da / be assume to include one auditory feature , namely the variation in frequency of the second ( f2 ) and third ( f3 ) formant at the onset of the vowel ( slightly fall f2-f3 for / da / , rise f2-f3 for / ba / ) . however , this interpretation stem from the fact that f2 and f3 onset frequency be precisely the acoustic parameter manipulate by the experimenter to synthesize the auditory continuum between / ba / and / da / . in other word , the acoustic significance of the flmp feature be derive from the way in which the experiment have be design . the model do rely on a particular system of acoustic feature ( see for example steven & blumstein , 1978 , for an alternative system ) , but this system be embody in the experimental design , and be as such external to the model itself . in practice , therefore , the issue of how speech sound be map onto feature be not address in the model . why this be so be not clear to me . on several occasion , massaro suggest that determine in advance how a give individual will convert a give stimulus into a set of feature value be simply out of our reach . this stimulus-to - feature map show a variability which be say to be analogous to the variability of the weather : there be just too many previous contribution and influence to allow quantitative prediction ( 135 ) . a fundamental distinction be in fact establish in the flmp between the intake of * information * , i . e . the stimulus-to - feature map , and * information process * , i . e . how feature be combine with each other and map into a response ( cf . p . 135 ) . while the flmp predict that the information will be process in the same way from one individual to the other , regardless of whether it relate to speech sound , facial movement , manual gesture , etc . , it be assume that the way in which this information be extract from the stimulus be on the contrary subject to too many source of variation to be accurately characterize ahead of time . in my understand , this means that the so-cal evaluation stage cannot be account for by the model , or at least not with much accuracy . however , at least on one occasion massaro do suggest that this limitation be not consubstantial with every model of perception and pattern recognition , and could be circumvent in some way . accord to him , one could indeed " easily hypothesize function relate the feature value to the stimulus level , [ although ] that would represent a * model of information * in addition to one of information process " ( 294 , my emphasis ) . this suggest that build such a model of information be feasible . whether there be a possibility of the flmp be complete with a model of this kind , i . e . an explicit stimulus-to - feature map stage , be an issue which remains to be address . 2 . 2 . 2 the time course of speech process time play quite a central role in different way in the book . first , massaro show how the flmp can be explicitly formalize to account for the dynamics of perceptual process ( chap . 9 ) . this formalization be present in reply to criticism express by a number of investigator ( e . g . mcclelland , 1991 ) , who have point out that the flmp accurately characterize the asymptotic outcome of the perceptual system ( e . g . the probability for a particular response to occur ) , but have little to say about the time course of process . the dynamic version of the flmp be intend to address these reaction . in this version , the stimulus-to - feature map be assume to take a certain amount of time . dure this interval , the information about the stimulus gradually accumulate , and become increasingly accurate . it be assume that accuracy increase as a negatively accelerate function of process time , so that more information be glean early than late in the process of the stimulus . one further assumption be that " integration of the separate feature [ be ] update continuously as the featural information be be evaluate . similarly , decision [ can ] occur at any time after the stimulus presentation " ( 259 ) . thus , there be a partial temporal overlap between the different stage of process , in the sense that one process can begin before a previous process be finish ( see also figure 2 . 1 , p . 41 ) . these assumption about the time course of information process be support by a number of experiment concern with the effect of backward mask in the recognition of pure tone , and in the recognition of letter . speech obviously raise a number of specific issue in that domain , however . unlike write word , speech be a temporal phenomenon , it be continuous ( i . e . there be no systematic acoustic boundary between phoneme , syllable , or word ) and , furthermore , time per se serve as a source of information in speech , as point out by massaro ( e . g . vowel duration be a major cue to the voice of the follow obstruent , to take but one example ) . somewhat regrettably , few indication be give about how the model could be assess in the speech domain ( see remark p . 194 and p . 263 ) . in addition to discuss the dynamics of process , massaro examine how the temporal relation between source of information be deal with in pattern recognition . chapter 3 focus on our sensitivity to temporal asynchrony between visible and audible speech . in the experiment report in this chapter , bimodal cv syllable with various degree of onset asynchrony between the auditory synthetic speech and the visible synthetic speech be present to subject in a forced-choice identification task . the result show that integration between the two source of information still occur when these source of information be make asynchronous , provide that the time shift do not exceed a certain duration . one major challenge for phonetician and psycholinguist alike be to characterize the relationship between what could be call the * external * dynamics of speech , i . e . the temporal organization of the speech signal , and the * internal * time course of speech process . both play a role in the perception of speech , and it be most difficult to tell apart their respective influence on the listener 's behaviour ( samuel , 1996 ) . for example , in a gate study investigate the role of vowel duration as a cue to the voice of the post-vocalic stop in cvc syllable , warren and marslen - wilson ( 1988 ) find that the proportion of voiced-coda response increase as the listener be present with increasingly long portion of the initial cv sequence . one obvious interpretation be that longer vowel be perceive as be associate with voice coda rather than voiceless one . in keep with massaro 's dynamical flmp , however , it may also be assume that evaluate the information provide by the vowel take time , and that the evidence point to a voice coda gradually accumulate as more process time be make available to the listener , all other thing be equal . thus , the above find raise the issue of how to differentiate the effect of vowel duration per se on the listener 's response , from that of the internal dynamics of process . although this issue be not directly address in the book , there be no doubt that the flmp would constitute a most appropriate framework for further investigation in this domain . 2 . 3 general conclusion this book provide us with quite an extensive review of the work carry out by the author and other on the use of multiple cue in speech perception and , more generally , pattern recognition . it be aim at a very large audience , and constitute a most useful tool both for teach and research purpose . i do not doubt that it will soon become a major reference for researcher in phonetics , psycholinguistic , and cognitive psychology . 4 bibliography liberman , a . m . ( 1996 ) . speech : a special code ( mit press , cambridge , mass . ) . mcclelland , j . l . ( 1991 ) . " stochastic interactive process and the effect of context on perception " , cognitive psychology 23 , 1-44 . samuel , a . g . ( 1996 ) . " the role of time during lexical access " , journal of the acoustical society of america 100 , 4 / 2 , 2572 . steven , k . n . , and blumstein , s . e . ( 1978 ) . " invariant cue for place of articulation in stop consonant " , journal of the acoustical society of america 64 , 1358-1368 . warren , p . , and marslen - wilson , w . ( 1988 ) . " cue to lexical choice - discriminate place and voice " , perception and psychophysic 43 , 21-30 . 5 biographical details the reviewer be a lecturer in the laboratory for psycholinguistic , fpse , university of geneva , switzerland . hbe current research cover a variety of topic rang from the dynamics of articulatory movement in speech production to the phonetic base of word recognition . thank be due to ulus frauenfelder for helpful comment . a latex version of this document be available upon request ( nnguyen @ fapse . unige . ch ) .
