Subject: morphology and syntax

describing morphosyntax : a guide for field linguists thoma e . payne ( university of oregon ) ; describe morphosyntax : a guide for field linguist ; isbn : 0-521 - 58224 - 5 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 430 pp . ; pub . deat : 10 / 31 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 64 . 95 ; this book be a guide for linguistic fieldworker who wish to write a description of the morphology and syntax of one of the world 's many underdocument language . it offer reader who work through it one possible outline for a grammatical description , with many question design to help them address the key topic . appendice offer guidance on text and elicit datum , and on sample reference grammar that reader may wish to consult . this will be a valuable resource to anyone engage in linguistic fieldwork . ; content : introduction ; 1 . demographic and ethnographic information ; 2 . morphological typology ; 3 . grammatical category ; 4 . constituent order typology ; 5 . noun and noun-phrase operation ; 6 . predicate nominal and relate construction ; 7 . grammatical relation ; ! 8 . voice and valence adjust operation ; 9 . other verb and veb-phrase operation ; 10 . pragmatically mark structure ; 11 . clause combination ; 12 . conclusion : the language in use ; appendix 1 : on text and elicit datum ; appendix 2 : sample reference grammar ; reference ; index ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html parameters of morphosyntactic change parameter of morphosyntactic change ; isbn : 0-521 - 58402 - 7 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 556 pp . ; an van kemenade , ed . ( free university of amsterdam ) ; pub . deat : 6 / 30 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 74 . 95 ; the relationship between change in ( inflectional ) morphology and the consequence of these change in syntax have be a perennial issue in historical linguistics . the contributor to this volume address the issue of how to model the phenomenon of syntactic and morphological change within recent framework , include the minimalist programme . topic address include the way category like aspect and mood interact over time with the valency of verb ; the nature of change in verb placement ; the change division of labor between different type of argument mark - - case , word order , clitic , agreement . ^ l the volume contain chapter by many of the lead scholar in the field . there be a substantial introduction which review the development of idea in generative historus ! cal syntax over the last fifteen year , and assess the distinctive property of the generative position . the volume will appeal to those work in theoretical syntax , and also to specialist in the history of german , french and the romance and germanic language more broadly . ; content : introduction : parameter and morphosyntactic change an van kemenade and nigel vincent ; part i . aspect , argument structure and case selection : 1 . the interdependence of ca , aspect and referentiality in the history of german werner abraham ; 2 . the rise of the article in the germanic language julium philippus ; 3 . the diachronic development of a modal verb of necessity paolum beninca and cecilium poletto ; 4 . auxiliary verb in old and middle french philip h . miller ; 5 . commentary on part i : aspect , argument structure and case selection alessandra tomasellus ; part ii . clitic : 6 . the emergence of the d - system in romance nigel vincent ; 7 . on two location for complement clitic pronoun maria luisa ! rivero ; 8 . on the integration of second position phenomenon josep m second and comp : 9 . shift trigger and diachronic reanalyse david lightfoot ; 10 . view change in progress alison henry ; 11 . verb movement in old and middle english anthony kroch and ann taylor ; 12 . v2 and embed topicalization in old and middle english an van kemenade ; 13 . qu ' est-ce que ce que : the diachronic evolution of a french complementizer laurie zare and paul hirschbuhler ; 14 . the structure of parametric change , and v - movement in the history of english anthony warner ; part iv . scramble and morphological change : 15 . directionality and word orderchange in the history of english ian robert ; 16 . on the relation between morphological and syntactic case fred weerman ; 17 . the rise of positional license paul kiparsky ; the papers by kiparsky , robert and weerman : an epilogue hoskuldur thrainsson ; reference ; index . ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html a notional theory of syntactic categories john m . anderson ( university of edinburgh ) ; a notional theory of syntactic category ; isbn : 0-521 - 58023 - 4 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 365 pp . ; pub . deat : 4 / 28 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 69 . 95 ; this book present an innovative theory of syntactic category and the lexical class they define . it revive the traditional idea that these be to be distinguish notionally ( semantically ) . the author propose a notation base on semantic feature that account for the syntactic behavior of class . the book also present a case for consider this classification - - again in a rather traditional vein - - to be basic to determine the syntactic structure of sentence . ; content : 1 . prelude ; 2 . fundamental of a notional theory ; 3 . the syntax of category . ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html the raising of predicates : predicative noun phrases and the theory of clause structure andrea moro ( istituto scientifico h san raffaele , milan ) ; the raise of predicate : predicative noun phrase and the theory of clause structure ; isbn : 0-521 - 56233 - 3 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 328 pp . ; pub . deat : 1 / 13 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 64 . 95 ; one of the basic premise of the theory of syntax be that clause structure can be minimally identify as contain a verb phrase , play the role of predicate , and a noun phrase , play the role of subject . in this study andrea moro identify a new category of copular sentence , namely inverse copular sentence , where the predicative noun phrase occupy the position that be canonically reserve for subject . in the process , he shed new light on such classical issue as the distribution and nature of expletive , locality theory and cliticization phenomenon . ; content : 1 . the anomaly of copular sentence : the raise of predicate ; 2 . the syntax of cus ; 3 . are there parameter in semantics ? the define property of e ! xistential sentence ; 4 . the ' quasi-copulum ' : on the role of finite clause in seem-sentence ; 5 . a view beyond : unaccusativity as an epiphenomenon ; appendix : a brief history of the copula . ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html
