Subject: cognitive linguistic

possession : cognitive sources , forces and grammaticalization bernd heine ( university of cologne ) ; possession : cognitive source , force and grammaticalization ; isbn : 0-521 - 55037 - 8 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 290 pp . ; pub . deat : 6 / 30 / 97 publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 64 . 95 ; bernd heine argue that the structure of grammatical category be predictable to a large extent once we know the range of possible cognitive structure from which they be derive . the author use as his example the structure of predicative possession , and show how most of the possessive construction to be find in the world 's language can be trace back to a small set of basic conceptual pattern . using grammaticalization theory heine describe how each affect the word order and morphosyntax of the result possessive construction . ; content : 1 . the state / 2 . the process / 3 . on attributive possession / 4 . from possession to aspect / 5 . evaluation / appendix : a world-wide survey of have-construction / reference ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html color categories in thought and language color category in thought and language ; isbn : 0-521 - 49693 - 4 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 414 pp . ; c . l . hardin , ed . ( emeritus , syracuse university ) ; pub . deat : 7 / 30 / 97 publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 74 . 95 ; twenty - five year ago , berlin and kay argue that there be commonality of basic color term use that extend across language and culture , and probably express universal feature of perception and cognition . in this volume , a distinguish team of contributor from visual science , psychology , linguistics and anthropology examine how these claim have fare in the light of current knowledge , survey key idea , result and technique from the study of human color vision as well as field method and theoretical interpretation draw from linguistic anthropology . order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html mappings in thought and language gille fauconnier ( university of californium , san diego ) ; mapping in thought and language ; isbn : 0-521 - 46062 - x ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 217 pp . ; pub . deat : 4 / 30 / 97 publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 54 . 95 ; mean in everyday think and language be construct at lightn speed . we be not conscious of the stagger complexity of the cognitive operation that drive our simplest behavior . this book reveal the creativity that underlie our effortless use of language in everyday life , when we engage in conversation , understand humor , or solve puzzle . the capacity and principle that we develop from infancy for ordinary think and talk be also the one that drive scientific and artistic think , high-level reason , and conceptual change . ; content : 1 . mapping / 2 . mental space connection / 3 . tense and mood / 4 . analogical counterfactual / 5 . match / 6 . blend ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html language and conceptualization language and conceptualization ; isbn : 0-521 - 55303 - 2 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 289 pp . ; jan nuyt , ed . ( university of antwerp ) ; pub . deat : 5 / 31 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 59 . 95 ; to what extent be conceptualization base on linguistic representation ? and to what extent be it variable across culture , community or even individual ? of crucial importance in the attempt to develop a comprehensive theory of human cognition , these remain among the most difficult question in the cognitive science . this volume bring together ten new contribution from lead scholar work in a wide cross section of discipline , include linguistics , anthropology , psychology and philosophy . ; content : 1 . overview : on the relationship between language and conceptualization , jan nuyt and eric pederson / 2 . from outer to inner space : linguistic category and non-linguistic think , stephen c . levinson / 3 . spatial operation in deixi , cognition and culture , balthasar bickel / 4 . remote world : the conceptual representation of linguistic would , paul werth / 5 . role and individual representation of change predicate , eve sweetser / 6 . chang place in english and german : language-specific preference in the conceptualisation of spatial relation , mary carroll / 7 . mapp conceptual representation into linguistic representation : the role of attention in grammar , russell s . tomlin / 8 . growth point cross-linguistically , david mcneill / 9 . on the modularity of sentence process : semantical generality and the language of think , jay atla / 10 . the contextual basis of cognitive semantics , ronald w . langacker / 11 . the cognitive foundation of pragmatic principle : implication for theory of linguistic and cognitive representation , edward a robinson . order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html comprehension : a paradigm for cognition walter kintsch ( university of colorado , boulder ) ; comprehension : a paradigm for cognition ; isbn : 0-521 - 58360 - 8 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 461 pp . ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 69 . 95 ; in this book , walter kintsch present a theory of human text comprehension and extend his analysis to relate area . comprehension be conceptualize as a two-stage process : first , approximate , inaccurate representation be construct vium context insensitive construction rule , which be then integrate vium a spread activation constraint satisfaction process . in part i , the general theory be present and an attempt be make to situate it within the current theoretical landscape in cognitive science . the second part address many of the topic that be typically find in a cognitive psychology text , include how word meaning be identify in a discourse context ; how word be combine to form coherent representation of text , both at the local and global level ; what the role be of work memory in comprehension ; how relevant knowledge be activate during read ; and what be the distinction between remember a text and learn from a text . ; content : 1 . introduction / part i . the theory / 2 . cognition and representation / 3 . propositional representation / 4 . modele comprehension process : the construction - integration model / part ii . models of comprehension / 5 . word identification in discourse / 6 . textbase and situation model / 7 . the role of work memory in comprehension / 8 . memory for text / 9 . learn from text / 10 . word problem / 11 . beyond text ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html
