Subject: semantic

the dynamics of focus structure nomus erteschik - shir ( ben - gurion university of the negev ) ; the dynamic of focus structure ; isbn : 0-521 - 59217 - 8 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 294 pp . ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 64 . 95 ; all mode of perception ( vision , hear , etc . ) be organize into foreground or focus and background constituent . natural language sentence be no different . this book explore the role of focus in natural language sentence and the role of this basic cognitive mechanism in explain sentence stress , mean and structure . the result be an innovative view of our linguistic competence . ; content : introduction ; 1 . the interpretation of f-structure ; 2 . reference and coreference ; 3 . negation , question and contrast ; 4 . the phonological interpretation f-structure ; 5 . scope and r-dependency ; 6 . i - dependency in da s-structure ; conclusion ; reference ; index of name ; index of subject . order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html focus and natural language processing : linguistic , cognitive , and computational perspectives focus and natural language process : linguistic , cognitive , and computational perspective ; isbn : 0-521 - 58305 - 5 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , c . 300 pp . ; p . bosch , ed . ( institute for logic and linguistic , ibm , germany ) ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 59 . 95 ; this book present a collection of papers on the issue of focus in its broadest sense . while commonly consider as be relate to phenomenon such as presupposition and anaphora , focus be much more widely spread , and it be this pervasiveness that the current collection address . the work loosely originate from a conference hold in 1994 in schloss wolfsbrunnen in germany , although only a small subpart of the proceedings papers present be include here . the contribute papers have be rework for the current volume to present a coherent study of the subject . ; content : introduction ; part 1 ; intonation and syntax ; 1 ; contrastive stress , contrariety and focus ; 2 ; the process of information structure in synphonic ; 3 ; focus and sentence accent in english ; 4 ; informational autonomy ; 5 ; focus and operator scope in german ; 6 ; subject - prodrop in yiddish ; 7 ; remark on intonation and " focus " ; part 2 ; semantics ; 8 ; what be the alternative ? ; 9 ; topic ; 10 ; focus with nominal quantifier ; 11 ; dependency in focus-structure ; 12 ; topic , focus and negation ; 13 ; topic , focus and weak quantifier ; 14 ; focus , quantification , and semantics-pragmatic issue ; 15 ; association with focus or association with presupposition ? ; 16 ; time adverbial in sentence and discourse ; part 3 ; discourse ; 17 ; focus particle and ellipsis resolution ; 18 ; discourse and the focus / background distinction ; 19 ; on different kind of focus ; 20 ; stress and unstress pronoun : complementary preference ; 21 ; frame shift : indefinite reference to familiar referent ; 22 ; discourse link and discourse subordination ; 23 ; domain restriction ; 24 ; update , file and focus-ground ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html
