Subject: sociolinguistic

endangered languages : current issues and future prospects endanger language : current issue and future prospect ; isbn : 0-521 - 59102 - 3 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 380 pp . ; lenore a . grenoble , ed . ( dartmouth college ) ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 69 . 95 ; the issue of language loss be currently the focus of much linguistic research . this edit volume bring together work by theoretical linguist , field linguist and nonlinguist member of minority community to provide an integrate view of how language be lose , from sociological and economic as well as from linguistic perspective . it map out some of the strategy apply by native community and professional linguist in the face of language endangerment . several author address the understudy issue of what ( beyond a linguistic system ) be lose when a language become obsolescent . content : preface part i . general issues : 1 . western language ideology and small-language prospects nancy dorian ; 2 . toward a typology of language endangerment lenore grenoble , lindsay whaley ; part ii . language community responses : 3 . technical , emotional , and ideological issue in reverse language shift : example from southeast alaska nora and richard dauenhauer ; 4 . mayan effort toward language preservation nora england ; 5 . a chronology of mohawk language instruction at kahnaw : ke kaia ' titahkhe annette jacobs ; 6 . language endangerment in south america : a programmatic approach colette grinevald ; part iii . what is lost : language diversity : 7 . the significance of diversity in language endangerment and preservation marianne mithun ; 8 . on endanger language and the importance of linguistic diversity ken hale ; 9 . live word and cartoon translation : longhouse " text " and the limitation of english christopher jocks ; 10 . document rhetorical , aesthetic , and expressive loss in language shift anthony woodbury ; part iv . mechanisms of language loss : 11 . impact of language variation and accomodation theory on language maintenance : an analysis of shaba swahilus andr ^ d ' e kapa ! nga ; 12 . a way to dusty death : the matrix language turnover hypoth 13 . copper island aleut : a case of language ' resurrection ' nikolai vakhtin ; reference ; index of language ; index of name ; general index . ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html the language web : the power and problem of words jean aitchison ( university of oxford ) ; the language web : the power and problem of word ; the 1996 bbc reith lecture ; isbn : 0-521 - 57385 - 8 ; hardback , 5 1 / 4 x 8 , 152 pp . ; pub . deat : 4 / 13 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 49 . 95 ; language be like a vast interconnect spider 's web . in this volume jean aitchison explore the different facet of this web , rang from its biological nature and the way in which language be acquire by child to the way the web have aid language evolution . this be the text of the 1996 bbc reith lecture , with the addition of illustration , suggestion for further read and note . an afterword look at the reception of the lecture . content : 1 . a web of worry : anxiety about language ; 2 . a web of deceit : the origin of language ; 3 . build the web : acquire language ; 4 . a web of word : remember word ; 5 . a world-wide web : option and snare . ; order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html english as a global language david crystal ; english as a global language ; isbn : 0-521 - 59247 - x ; hardback , 5 1 / 2 x 8 1 / 2 , 160 pp . ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 19 . 95 ; david crystal , world authority on the english language , have write a timely and informative account of the phenomenon of english as a global language . it include a historical summary of the global fact and figure , of the current spread and status of english as a first or second language internationally ; and an inform assessment of the future of english . the book answer three basic question : what make a world language ? why be english the lead candidate ? and why it will continue to hold that position . it steer even-handedly through the minefield of political debate about the cultural hegemony of english , and will appeal to anyone with an interest in language issue , whatever their political view on the subject . order info : http : / / www . cup . org / order . html
