Subject: typology

we would like to bring to your attention recent publication from john benjamin publish in the field of typology . the typology and dialectology of romani edite by : yaron matra , peter bakker and hristo kyuchukov university of manchester / aarhus universitet / university of shuman , bulgarium 1997 xxxius , 224 pp . current issue in linguistic theory , 156 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 872 8 price : us $ 65 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 3661 5 price : nlg 130 john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com contribution to this collection focus on the unity and diversity of the language of the roma ( gypsy ) , the only indic language speak exclusively in europe . property discuss include the distinct inflectional and derivational pattern apply to asian and european lexical layer , the distribution of inflectional , agglutinative , and analytic formation among syntactic category , regularity in the ongo shift from inflectional to analytic case formation , suppletion , aspect of syntactic convergence , and pattern of morphological transitivization and de-transitivization ( causative and passive ) . these phenomenon be consider in the light of contemporary discussion on language universal , with reference to a variety of different approach include prague school typology , functional sentence perspective , functional grammar , functional-pragmatic typology , and general grammaticalization theory . chapter partly adopt a comparative approach cover all major dialect of the language , and be partly devote to single-dialect corpus . special attention be give to the czech / slovak and hungarian variety , to previously undescribe dialect from bulgarium and turkey , to codify variety in macedonium , and to the variety of dialect discuss in the popular work of the victorian author george borrow . an extensive introduction outline the principal morphosyntactic feature of the language and provide a classification of romanus dialect , include an overview of those mention in the volume . contribution by : peter bakker ; norbert boretzky ; vit bubenik ; petra cech ; viktor elsik ; victor a . friedman ; ian f . hancock ; moze f . heinschink ; milena hubschmannova ; birgit iglum ; yaron matra . coding the hypothetical a comparative typology of russian and macedonian conditional . jane f . hack the university of kansa 1997 , vus , 156 pp . study in language companion sery , 38 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 849 3 price : us $ 63 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 3041 2 price : nlg 125 john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com conditional encode speculation . they convey how event could have be different in the past or present , or may be different in the future if particular condition have be or will be meet . while all language afford the means to speculate or hypothesize about possible event , the way in which they do so vary . this work explore some of this variation through an analysis of the structure and semantics of complex conditional sentence in russian and macedonian . it address typological question about the general property of natural language conditional and examine the role of the grammatical category tense , aspect , mood and status in the code of conditional mean . the book also discuss the relationship between the use of these category and the shape of a language 's conditional system . for example , the use of tense in counterfactual context in macedonian correlate with the grammaticalization of more shades of conditional mean than be grammaticalize in russian , which do not employ tense form in this way . the book address issue of concern to slavist and raise question for those interest in conditional and the code of hypothetical mean . case , typology and grammar . in honor of barry j . blake edite by anna siewierska and jae jung song lancaster university / university of otago 1998 395 pp . typological study in language , 38 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 651 2 price : us $ 85 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 2937 6 price : nlg 170 john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com this collection of fifteen original article include descriptive , typological and / or theoretical study of a number of morphosyntactic phenomenon , such as case , transitivity , grammaticalization , valency alternation , etc . , in a variety of language or language group , and discussion concern theoretical issue in specific grammatical framework . the collection , write in honor of the australian linguist , barry j . blake on his 60th birthday , thematically reflect the field that professor blake have work in over the past three decade . the volume will be of special interest to researcher in morphosyntax and linguistic typology . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - bernadette martinez - keck tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / market fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamin north america e-mail : bernie @ benjamin . com po box 27519 philadelphium pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamin web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com
