Subject: new sery : study in corpus linguistic

john benjamin publish would like to call your attention to a new series ; studies in corpus linguistics studies in corpus linguistics aim to provide insight into the way a corpus can be use , the type of finding that can be obtain , the possible application of these finding as well as the theoretical change that corpus work can bring into linguistics and language engineer . the main concern of scl will be to present finding base on , or relate to , the cumulative effect of naturally occur language and on the interpretation of frequency and distributional datum . general editor : elena togninus - bonellus consult editor : wolfgang teubert terms in context jennifer pearson 1998 xius , 246 pp . study in corpus linguistic , 1 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 342 4 price : us $ 69 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 2269 x price : nlg 138 john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com term in context apply the methodology that have be develop over the last two decade in corpus linguistics to the relatively new and still little develop field of corpus-base terminography . while corpus be already be use by some terminologist fro the identification of term and retrieval of contextual fragment , his book describe the first attempt to use corpus for terminography in much the same way as large general reference corpus be already be use for general language lexicography . the author go beyond the standard problem of identify term , as oppose to non-terminological lexical item in text and focus on identify metalanguage pattern which point to the presence in text of ( part of ) reusable definition of term . the author examine these and show how the information which they contain can be retrieve and use as input for terminological entry . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - bernadette martinez - keck tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / market fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamin north america e-mail : bernie @ benjamin . com po box 27519 philadelphium pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamin web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com
