Subject: amta workshop on embed mt system - cfp

workshop announcement - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - workshop on embedded mt systems call for papers design , construction , and evaluation of system with an mt component wednesday , october 28 , 1998 ( precede the amta 98 conference ) sheraton buck county hotel , langhorne , pennsylvanium introduction as the strength and weakness of machine translation ( mt ) engine have become better understand and accept , there have be a mark increase in the development of computer system with anembed mt component . one consequence of this shift to " embed mt " be that researcher , developer , as well as user have begin push the limit on the input that such system will accept for translation . in so do , a new class of problem have surface : any input - - - whether it appear in physical form on paper , in electronic form on-line , or mix in with another modality such as graphic or video - - - will bring with it some unknown mix of noisy natural language datum as well as non-linguistic datum . how be system with an mt component to be design and evaluate give the challenge this input bring ? the objective of this workshop be to examine and evaluate technique for adjust this " linguistic impedance mismatch " between the real-world input and the natural language input expect by various mt engine . thus the workshop will focus on computational approach to preprocess system input for mt engine andon statistical method for evaluate system with an embed mt component . linguistic preprocess in image data for researcher work with image datum , there be currently underway an effort to augment ocr ( optical character recognition ) engine with linguistic datum as they recognize and convert bitmap datum into character - - - similar to what have already be do in speech recognition with linguistic datum in hmms ( hide markov model ) . other ocr researcher have also experiment with image-level early topic detection use word-shape recognition . in principle , this could provide a first-step filter of document into a more homogeneous mt input set , a desirable goal for mt evaluation . thus we expect that individual work with or intend to incorporate ocr into their computer system will be interest in this new area . linguistic preprocess in online data for those work with online input , even though the character be already present , there often still remains the task of preprocess meaningful , symbolic character string that be not a part of the text to be translate . for some system , the rule for identify and encapsulate or remove such string may need to be hand-craft over time as mt engine limitation surface . for other , a combination of hand-craft rule and statistically train nl model have work . many have observe that the html annotation , alphanumeric item , spreadsheet and word process code be harder to weed out than originally expect . research effort with the low-density and less-commonly teach language , as well as more common one , encounter a substantial problem with variation in spell convention and transcription preference . for those natural language that be primarily speak and not write , for example , this be frequently the case . researcher work on this class of problem have build variant on spell checkers ( sc ) , component that standardize word to one orthography ( spell convention ) before submit it to an mt engine . an idea that have arise for this component be to build in an option to adjust the level of sc correction - - - as would be relevant when input after ocr nonetheless vary from very noisy to relatively clean . evaluation of embed mt system among those work on statistical method for evaluate system with an embed mt component , we have see two distinct trend . one group of statistician have begin look for appropriate model from outside the world of mt evaluation , examine the effort by other to take distinct metric for component and combine them for an overall system-level metric use fuzzy mathematics . another group of researcher be look instead at develop a one-dimensional scale for rank mt engine along a continuum define by system-level function . that approach , for example , may rank one engine as good enough for filter document , while another engine deem more linguistically robust would be rank higher because it could generate a good enough initial translation for subsequent post-edit . we welcome other functional evaluation of mt component and computer system with embed mt component as well . submissions submitter be invite to send in a short paper , not more than 5 page , address one or more of the three area discuss above . paper should define the problem in an embed mt system that be the focus of the work , describe the embed mt system design ( a simple sketch ) with sample input datum where relevant , and present their approach to the problem . work at various stage of completion be acceptable ; we expect the current status of the work to be make clear . submission of end-to - end output of an embed mt system be especially encourage . the papers will be collect and distribute to participant of theworkshop . ideally , the result of the workshop will be a clearer delineation of : ( 1 ) the range of linguistic preprocess problem ( 2 ) the range of design in embed mt system ( 3 ) how these problem aretreate in different embed mt system and ( 4 ) the metric that be be use to evaluate these system and their component . dates notice of interest in participation : july 10 , 1998 ( to voss @ arl . mil ) please identify which of the three area you intend to address : preprocess in image datum , preprocess in online datum , evaluation of embed mt system . position paper submission : august 10 , 1998 notification : september 10 , 1998 final copy of papers : october 10 , 1998 workshop : october 28 , 1998 submission may be in print or electronic form . submission should be send to : clare voss army research laboratory amsrl-is - ci 2800 powder mill road adelphus , md 20783 phone : ( 301 ) 394-5615 fax : ( 301 ) 394-3903 e-mail : voss @ arl . mil the registration fee for the conference be $ 50 . non - presenter will be accept on a first-come , first serve basis . we strongly encourage the participation of embed mt system user , as well as member of the research and development community . after july 11 , 1998 , a copy of the call , the registration form , and further update information will be available vium a link at : < http : / / rpstl . arl . mil / isb / > florence reeder | phone : ( 703 ) 883-7156 the mitre corporation | ( 703 ) 883-6750 ( secretary ) ms w640 | fax : ( 703 ) 883-1279 1820 dolley madison blvd . | email : reeder @ azrael . mitre . org mclean , va 22102 |
