Subject: recent publication on pragmatic

we would like to bring to your attention recent publication from john benjamin publish in the field of pragmatics : relevance theory . application and implication . edite by robyn carston , nbe sun song and seijus uchida university college london / nara women 's university 1998 x , 299 pp . pragmatic & beyond new sery , 37 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 330 0 price : us $ 70 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 5049 9 price : nlg 140 john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com this collection of papers arise from a meet of relevance theorist hold in osaka , may 29-30 , 1993 . speaker at the conference include both of the originator of the theory , dan sperber and deirdre wilson , the editor of this volume and several other japanese linguist and pragmatist , all of whose work be include . the full breadth and richness of relevance theory be represent here , both in its application to problem of utterance interpretation , that fall squarely within the domain of pragmatic , and its implication for linguistic semantics . several papers investigate and assess the theory 's account of figurative use of language , such as irony , metaphor and metonymy . other central pragmatic issue include a relevance-driven account of generalize implicature , the role of bridge implicature in reference assignment , the way in which different intonation pattern contribute to the relevance of an utterance and the application of the theory to literary text . the recently develop semantic distinction between conceptually and procedurally encode mean , motivate by relevance-theoretic consideration , be employ in new account of several japanese particle and in a fresh perspective on the phenomenon of metalinguistic negation . the volume come with a comprehensive glossary of relevance-theoretic term . contribution by : dan wilson & deirdre sperber ; keiko tanaka ; reiko itanus ; kunihiko imaus ; nbe sun song ; akiko yoshimura ; tomoko matsuus ; seijus uchida ; robyn carston ; ken - ichus seto ; hidekus hamamoto ; masa - akus yamanashus ; dan sperber & deirdre wilson . political discourse in transition in europe ( 1989-1991 ) edite by : paul a . chilton , mikhail v . ilyin and jacob l . mey university of warwick / moscow institute of international relation / odense university 1998 x , 272 pp . pragmatic & beyond new sery , 36 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 329 7 price : us $ 69 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 5048 0 price : nlg 138 john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com the year 1989 bring political upheaval in central , eastern and southern europe , the effect of which have not yet end . the political discourse of the cold war period disintegrate and give way to compete alternative . the contributor to this book be linguist , discourse analyst and social scientist , from all corner of the continent , whose tool of analysis shed light on the crucial two year of transition during which political concept and political interaction change in dramatic and sometime violent way . contribution by : mikhail v . ilyin ; paul chilton ; jacob mey ; victor sergeyev and nikolaus biryukov ; georgius pocheptsov ; alexandre bourmeyster ; ludmilum minaeva ; marina kaul ; elena borisova ; anatolius baranov ; christina schiffner and peter porsch ; kay richardson ; pierre achard ; ida kurcz ; christina teichmann ; jasna levinger . discourse of silence denni kurzon university of haifa 1998 vus , 162 pp . pragmatic & beyond new sery , 49 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 811 6 price : us $ 48 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 5062 6 price : nlg 96 john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com this book deal initially with the interpretation of the silent answer to a question . from a semiotic approach to the contrast between silence and speech mainly within a greimasian framework - an approach which show insight into the general relationship between silence and speech , the discussion then turn to the application of pragmatic tool such as conversational analysis and adjacency pair to the interpretation of silence . a model be present which attempt to explain the observer 's cognitive competence , and its limit , in be able to interpret the silent answer . a basic distinction be also make between intentional silence ( the refusal to answer ) and non-intentional silence ( the psychological inability to answer ) . the interpretation of silence be then extend from a theoretical viewpoint to an analysis of various discourse type . firstly , silence in the legal world be discuss mainly in term of the accuse 's and the witness 's right of silence , especially their intentionally silent answer to lawyer ' question . this develop into the " transitivization " of silence - the right of court to silence lawyer ' reference to the silence of witness , and the right of legal authority to silence the broadcast of direct speech . the study gradually move away from the direct application of the model to the silent answer , and address the silence of character in a literary text ( jane austen 's pride and prejudice ) , in a biblical text ( mose and speech impediment in exodus ) , in opera ( mose ' silence in schoenberg 's opera , mose und aron ) , and in the final chapter , in the cinema . here , after the initial discussion of ingmar bergman 's the silence , focus be shift to the generation gap and the representation of silence by song in mike nichol ' the graduate . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - bernadette martinez - keck tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / market fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamin north america e-mail : bernie @ benjamin . com po box 27519 philadelphium pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamin web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com
