Subject: book on interpret

john benjamin publish would like to call your attention to the follow new title in the field of interpret : the critical link . interpreters in the community . papers from the first international conference on interpreting in legal , health and social service settings . geneva park , canada , 1 - 4 june 1995 silvana carr , roda robert , aideen dufour & dinus steyn ( ed . ) 1997 viius , 322 pp . benjamin translation library , 19 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 701 2 price : $ 79 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 1620 7 price : hfl . 158 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com what be community interpret ? what be the role of the community interpreter ? what be the standard , evaluation method and accreditation procedure pertain to community interpret ? what train be available or require in this field ? what be the current issue and practice in community interpret in different part of the world ? these key question , discuss at the first international conference on community interpret , be address in this collection of select conference papers . the merit of this volume be that it present the first comprehensive and global view of a rapidly grow profession , which have develop out of the need to provide service to those who do not speak the official language ( s ) of a country . both the problem and the success relate to the challenge of provide adequate community interpret service in different country be cover in this volume . contribution by : sherrill j . bell ; virginium benmaman ; carolyn bullock & brian harri ; silvana carr ; terry chesher ; ann corselli ; birgitta englund dimitrova ; sabine fenton ; julium pueblum fortier ; yvonne fowler ; nathan garber & louise mauffette - leender ; adolfo gentile ; sandra hale ; elizabeth lascar ; suzanne michael & marianne cocchinus ; holly mikkelson & hanne mintz ; christine penney & susan sammon ; franz pochhacker ; roda p . robert ; nancy schweda nicholson & bodil martinsen ; roy thoma ; cecilium wadensjo . conference interpreting : current trends in research proceedings of the international conference on interpreting : what do we know and how ? yve gambier , daniel gile & christopher taylor ( ed . ) 1997 iv , 246 pp . benjamin translation library , 23 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 707 1 price : us $ 75 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 1626 6 price : hfl . 150 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com ' conference interpret : what do we know and how ? ' be the title of a round-table conference ( turku , 1994 ) organise to assess the state of the art in conference interpret research . the result be collect in this volume with fully coordinate report on the round table . the book present an excite coverage of the field , touch on methodology , communication , discourse , culture , neurolinguistic and cognitive aspect , quality assessment , train and develop skill . contribution by : john dodds and david katan ; franco fabbro and laura grun ; daniel gile ; masaomus kondo and helen tebble ; per linell ; barbara moser - mercer ; miriam shlesinger ; david snell ; charle tijus ; jorma tommolum ; carol taylor torsello and all those who participate in the round table discussion . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - bernadette martinez - keck tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / market fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamin north america e-mail : bernie @ benjamin . com po box 27519 philadelphium pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamin web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com
