Subject: book on written language & literacy

john benjamin publish would like to call your attention to the follow new title in the field of written language & literacy : writing and identity the discoursal construction of identity in academic writing roz ivanic 1997 xiv , 346 pp . study in written language and literacy , 5 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 322 x price : us $ 89 . 0 paper : 1 55619 323 8 price : us $ 29 . 95 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 1797 1 price : nlg 178 paper : 90 272 1798 x price : nlg 60 john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com write be not just about convey ' content ' but also about the representation of self . ( one of the reason people find write difficult be that they do not feel comfortable with the ' me ' they be portray in their write . academic write in particular often pose a conflict of identity for student in higher education , because the 's elf ' which be inscribe in academic discourse feel alien to them . ) the main claim of this book be that write be an act of identity in which people align themselve with socio-culturally shape subject position , and thereby play their part in reproduce or challenge dominant practice and discourse , and the value , belief and interest which they embody . the first part of the book review recent understanding of social identity , of the discoursal construction of identity , of literacy and identity , and of issue of identity in research on academic write . the main part of the book be base on a collaborative research project about write and identity with mature-age student , provide : o a case study of one writer 's dilemma over the presentation of self ; o a discussion of the way in which writer ' life history shape their presentation of self in write ; o an interview-base study of issue of ownership , and of accommodation and resistance to convention for the presentation of self ; linguistic analysis of the way in which multiple , often contradictory , interest , value , belief and practice be inscribe in discourse convention , which set up a range of possibility for self-hood for writer . the book end with implication of the study for research on write and identity , and for the learn and teach of academic write . the book will be of interest to student and researcher in the field of social identity , literacy , discourse analysis , rhetoric and composition study , and to all those concern to understand what be involve in academic write in order to provide wider access to higher education . writing development . an interdisciplinary view edite by : clotilde pontecorvo , universita dus roma , " la sapienza " , italy 1997 xxxius , 338 pp . study in written language & literacy , 6 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 324 6 price : us $ 69 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 1799 8 price : nlg 138 john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com this volume present a selection of papers present at a series of three workshop organize by the network " written language and literacy " as launch by the european science foundation . the main topic make up write development be : ( 1 ) write and literacy acquisition : link between speech and write , with contribution by david r . olson , claire blanche - benveniste , emilium ferreiro , ruth berman , liliana tolchinsky & ana teberosky ; ( 2 ) write and read in time and culture , with contribution by collette sirat , francoise desbord , harmut gunther , peter koch , & jean hebrard : ( 3 ) written language competence in monolingual and bilingual context , with contribution by michel fayol & serge mouchon , george ludus , & ludo verhoeven ; ( 4 ) write system , brain structure and language : a neurolinguistic view , with contributiori by giuseppe cossu , heinz wiimmer & uta frith , & brian butterworth . the volume head off with an extensive introduction " study write and write acquisition today : a multidisciplinary view " . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - bernadette martinez - keck tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / market fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamin north america e-mail : bernie @ benjamin . com po box 27519 philadelphium pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamin web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com
