Subject: book on the history of linguistic

john benjamin publish would like to call your attention to the follow new title in the history of linguistic : the emergence of semantics in four linguistic traditions hebrew , sanskrit , greek , arabic wout van bekkum , jan houben , ineke sluiter , kee versteegh 1997 ix , 322 pp . study in the history of the language science , 82 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 617 2 price : us $ 99 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 4568 1 price : hfl . 198 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com the aim of this study be a comparative analysis of the role of semantics in the linguistic theory of four grammatical tradition , sanskrit , hebrew , greek , arabic . if one compare the organization of linguistic theory in various grammatical tradition , it soon turn out that there be mark difference in the way they define the place of 's emantic ' within the theory . in some tradition , semantics be formally exclude from linguistic theory , and linguist do not express any opinion as to the relationship between syntactic and semantic analysis . in other tradition , the whole basis of linguistic theory be semantically orientate , and syntactic feature be alway analyse as correlate of a semantic structure . however , even in those tradition , in which semantics fall explicitly or implicitly outside the scope of linguistics , there may be factor force linguist to occupy themselve with the semantic dimension of language . one important factor seem to be the presence of a corpus of reveal / sacr text : the necessity to formulate hermeneutic rule for the interpretation of this corpus bring semantics in through the back door . the noblest animate motion speech , pysiology and medicine in pre-cartesian linguistic thought jeffrey wollock 1997 xlvus , 470 pp . study in the history of the language science , 83 us / canada : cloth : 1 55619 620 2 price : us $ 160 . 0 rest of the world : cloth : 90 272 4571 1 price : hfl . 320 , - - john benjamin publish web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com for further information vium e-mail : service @ benjamin . com the body of theory on speech production and speech disorder develop prior to descart have be so neglect by historian that its very existence be practically unknown today . yet it provide a framework for understand the speech process which be not only comprehensive and coherent , but of great relevance to current debate on issue of language performance and apply linguistics . this be because , the author contend , current theoretical difficulty stem largely from initial error of descart ; wherea earlier theoretical formulation , while outline a bio-mechanic of speech , retain the central role of the human agent . the discussion explicate in this book come mainly from the natural - philosophic and medical literature of greco - roman antiquity , the middle age , and the renaissance and early 17th century . this unchart territory be map for the first time by trace its textual history and diffusion as well as explain the theory on its own term but in language that will be clear and comprehensible to non-specialist . interdisciplinary in perspective , the book encompass topic of interest not only to the language science , but also to the bioscience , medicine , philosophy of human movement , psychology and behavioral science , neuroscience , speech pathology , experimental phonetics , speech and rhetoric , and the history of science in general . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - bernadette martinez - keck tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / market fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamin north america e-mail : bernie @ benjamin . com po box 27519 philadelphium pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamin web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com
