Subject: think with diagram 1998

twd98 think with diagram : is there a science of diagram ? workshop call for participation university of wale , aberystwyth , uk 22-23 august 1998 registration deadline : 22nd july 1998 diagram be essential in most field of human activity . there be substantial interest in diagram and their use in many academic discipline for the potential benefit they may confer on a wide range of task . are we now in a position to claim that we have a science of diagram ? that be , a science which take the nature of diagram and their use as the central phenomenon of interest . a science which be attempt to understand how diagram differ from other representational system and try to develop principle for the design of effective graphical representation . a science which consider how diagram communicate information and how they be use to solve problem . if we have a science of diagram it be certainly constitute from multiple discipline , include : cognitive science , psychology , artificial intelligence , logic , mathematics , and other . if there be a science of diagram , then like other science , there be an application or " engineer " discipline that exist alongside the science . application and engineer provide test of the theory and principle discover by the science and extend the scope of the phenomenon to be study by generate new use of diagram , new media for present diagram , or novel class of diagram . this application and engineer side of the science of diagram also comprise multiple discipline , include : education , architecture , computer science , mathematics , human - computer interaction , knowledge acquisition , graphic design , engineer , history of science , statistics , medicine , biology , and other . the theme of twd98 will be - is there a science of diagram ? by provide a forum for the presentation and discussion of quality research on diagram and diagram use , we not only try to answer this question , but more importantly attempt draw together the many different approach , theory and result that we have in the many diverse discipline that be concern with diagram . the question provide a vehicle on which to attempt to integrate what be currently a disparate and disorder set of activity into a more rational and coherent programme of research . is there any common core to the activity which provide a basis for the claim that the twd community could constitute a science ? more information and the workshop registration form can be find at the think with diagram home page : http : / / www . aber . ac . uk / ~ plo / twd98 or contact : patrick olivier ( plo @ aber . ac . uk ) think with diagram ( twd98 ) department of computer science university of wale , aberystwyth ceredigion , uk sy23 3db tel : + 44 1970 622424 / fax : + 44 1970 622455 the twd98 programme will include : ( i ) technical session for the presentation of papers ; ( ius ) invite talk on issue relevant to the twd community as a whole ; ( iius ) a panel session on the theme of twd98 . invite presentation : 1 . arthur i miller university college london " visual representation of nature " 2 . aaron sloman university of birmingham " diagram in the mind ? " 3 . clive richard , school of art and design , coventry university " diagrammatic " other presentation : 1 . peter cheng ( university of nottingham ) avow diagram : a novel representational system for understand electricity 2 . mateja jamnik , alan bundy & ian green ( university of edinburgh ) verification of diagrammatic proof 3 . maria kozhevnikov , mary hegarty & richard mayer ( techion & uc santa barbara ) visual / spatial ability in problem solve in physic 4 . sun - joo shin ( university of notre dame ) multiple reading of pierce alpha system 5 . alan blackwell & yurus engelhardt ( cambridge apu and university of amsterdam ) a taxonomy of diagram taxonomy 6 . robert kosara , silvium miksch , yuval shahar & peter johnson ( vienna university of technology & stanford university ) asbru - view : capture complex , time - orient plan 7 . jo calder ( university of edinburgh ) how to build a ( quite general ) linguistic diagram editor 8 . adam vile & simon polovina ( south bank university ) think of or think through diagram ? 9 . mark mina ( university of erlangen ) specify diagram language by mean of hypergraph grammar 10 . simon ungar , mark blade & christopher spencer ( glasgow caledonian university & university of sheffield ) can a tactile map facilitate learn of relate information by visually impair people ? 11 . danielum m . bailer - jone ( universitt paderborn ) sketch and visualisation as mental reification of theoretical scientific treatment 12 . leon rozenblit , michael spivey - knowlton & julie wojslawowiz ( cornell university ) mechanical reason about gear-and - belt diagram : do eye - movement predict performance ? 13 . nadine luca & nathalie coussin - rittemard ( limsi & utrecht university ) acting with diagram : how to plan strategy 14 . herman j . adr ( vrije universiteit ) diagram research design posters 15 . william godwin ( cheltenham and gloucester college ) a tectonic theory for graphical notation design 16 . jean - loui giavitto & erika valencium ( lri - universit pari sud ) using simplicial complex to model internal diagrammatic representation 17 . hernan casakin ( techion ) diagram , sketch , and the use of analogy in design problem - solve : expert and novice 18 . glen bell & david wilson ( university of technology , sydney ) diagram issue surround application architecture 19 . andrew basden ( university of salford ) research the with in think with diagram
