Subject: cssi conference on spatial cognition

mind iii : annual conference of the cognitive science society of ireland theme : spatial cognition dublin city university , dublin , ireland august 17-19 , 1998 you be invite to participate in the annual conference of the cssi , on the theme of spatial cognition , at dublin city university from august 17-19 , 1998 . this conference will bring together researcher from different cognitive science discipline ( psychology , computer science , linguistic , and cognitive geography ) who be study different aspect of spatial cognition . the conference will provide a forum for researcher to share insight about different aspect of spatial cognition and from the perspective of different discipline . the academic programme will begin at 9 : 0 a . m . on august 17th and end on 19th . the social programme will include a barbecue and ceilus ( traditional irish dance ) on tuesday 18th and a tour and concert on wednesday after the end of the academic programme . for information on registration and accommodation , please visit the web page at : http : / / www . psych . ucsb . edu / ~ hegarty / cssus / the deadline for early registration be july 15th ( after that the price increase significantly ) . for question about the programme , contact mary hegarty : hegarty @ psych . ucsb . edu for question about registration and local arrangement , contact sean o nuallain : sonuallum @ compapp . dcu . ie programme keynote speakers : michel deni , groupe cognition humaine , limsi-cnrs , universite de pari - sud andrew frank , department of geoinformation , technical university wien talk presentations : environmental spatial cognition g . allen , university of south carolina men and woman , map and mind : cognitive base of sex-relate difference in read and interpret map c . christou & h . bulthoff , max - planck institute for biological cybernetic , tubingen using virtual environment to study spatial encode d . jacobson , r . kitchin , t . garl , r . golledge & m . blade , university of californium , santa barbara , queen university of belfast , gotenborg university learn a complex urban route without sight : compare naturalistic versus laboratory measure p . peruch , f . gaunet , c . thinus - blanc , m - d . giroudo , cnrs , marseille & cnrs - college de france , pari real and imagine perspective change in visual versus locomotor navigation m . j . sholl , boston college the accessibility of metric relation in self-to - object and object-to - object system language and space t . baguley & s . j . payne , loughborough university and cardiff university of wale given - new versus new-given ? an analysis of read time for spatial description k . c . coventry & m . prat - salum , university of plymouth the interplay between geometry and function in the comprehension of spatial proposition j . gurney & e . kipple , army research laboratory , adelphus , md compose conceptual structure for speak natural language in a virtual reality environment s . huang , national taiwan university spatial representation in a language without preposition s . taub , gallaudet university iconic spatial language in asl : concrete and metaphorical application c . vorwerg , university of bielefeld production and understand of direction term as a categorization process computation and spatial cognition m . eisenberg & a . eisenberg , university of colorado design real-time software advisor for 3 - d spatial operation j . gaso & a . saffiottus , iridia , universite libre de brruxelle fuzzy set for the representation of uncertain spatial knowledge in autonomous robot r . k . lindsay , university of michigan discover diagrammatic demonstration p . mckevitt , aalborg university and university of sheffield chameleon meet spatial cognition d . r . montello , m . f . goodchild , p . fohl & j . gottsegen , university of californium , santa barbara implement fuzzy spatial query : problem statement and behavioral science method s . o nuallain & j . kelleher , dublin city university spoken image meet vrml and java spatial reasoning and problem solving m . gatti , max planck institute for psychological research , munich mapp relational structure in visual reason j . n . mcgregor , t . c . ormerod & e . p . chronicle , university of victorium and lancaster university spatial and conceptual factor in human performance on the travel salesperson problem p . d . pearson , r . h . logie & k . j . gilhooly , university of aberdeen verbal representation and spatial manipulation during mental synthesis l . rozenblit , m . spivey & j . wojslawowicz mechanical reason about gear-and - belt system : do eye-movement predict performance ? c . sophian & m . crosby , university of hawaius at manoa ratio that even young child understand : the case of spatial proportion theoretical perspectives : r . h . logie , department of aberdeen constraint on visuo-spatial work memory n . h . narayanan , auburn university explore virtual information landscape : spatial cognition meet information visualization a . smith , national research council , canada spatial cognition without spatial concept c . spee & d . g . tobin , university of plymouth space under stress : spatial understand and new media technology m . tiressa , a . caressa and g . geminianus , universita dus torino & universita dus padova a theoretical framework for the study of spatial cognition poster presentations m . betrancourt , a . pellegrin & l . tardif , research institut , inria rhone - alpe using a spatial display to represent the temporal structure of multimedium document m . bollaert , limsi-cnrs , university de pari - sud a connectionist model of mental imagery k borner & c vorwerg , university of bielefeld apply vr technology to the study of spatial perception and cognition a . caressa , a . abrigliano & g . geminianus , universita de padova & universita dus torino . describer and explorer : a method to investigate cognitive map . e . p . chronicle , t . c . ormerod & j . mcgregor . lancaster university and university of victorium when insight just win come : the failure of visual cue in the nine-dot problem . r . coate , c . j . hamilton & t . heffernan , university of teeside and university of northumbrium at newcastle in search of the visual and spatial characteristic of visuo-spatial work memory g . fernandez , lmsi-cnrs individual difference in the process of route direction r . hornig , b . claus & k . eyferth , technical university of berlin in search for an overall organize principle in spatial mental model : a question of inference m - c . grobety , m . morand & f . schenk cognitive mapp across visually disconnect environment n . gott , university of wale , aberystwyth describe the topology of spherical region use the " rcc " formalism x . guilarova , moscow m . v . lomosonov state university polysemy of adjective " round " vium lakoff 's radical category structure j . s . longstaff , laban center , london cognitive structure of kinesthetic space : reevaluate rudolph labanus choreutic u . schmid , s . wiebrock & f . wysotzkus , technical university of berlin modele spatial inference in text understand programme committee : ruth byrne , trinity college dublin jerome feldman , university of californium , berkeley mary hegarty , university of californium , santa barbara ( program chair ) christopher habel , university of hamburg george lakoff , university of californium , berkeley robert h . logie , university of aberdeen jack loomi , university of californium , santa barbara paul mc kevitt , aalborg university and university of sheffield daniel r . montello , university of californium , santa barbara n . harus naryanan , auburn university and georgium institute of technology patrick olivier , university of wale , aberystwyth sean o nuallain , dublin city university ( co - chair ) terry regier , university of chicago keith sten , edinburgh university michael spivey , cornell university arnold smith , national research council , canada barbara tversky , stanford university
