Subject: aspect , eventuality type and nominal semantic ; filip , hana

filip , hana ; aspect , eventuality type and nominal semantic ; 0-8153 - 3271 - 8 , cloth ; 321 page , $ 71 ; garland publish ; outstand dissertation in linguistic this book examine the interplay between the semantics of noun phrase and verbal predicate , with an emphasis on datum draw from czech and english , and comparison to german and finnish . the primary focus be on shift in reading assign to verbal predicate between event-reading and process-reading , often call ' aspect shift ' or ' coercion ' , and how these shift be relate to the semantics of constituent noun phrase . the book examine quantificational and definite interpretation of determinerless noun phrase in czech that be induce by the semantics of grammatical aspect ( perfective and imperfective ) , and by semantic property of verbal affix . three main these be defend in this book . the first be that grammatical aspect and eventuality type ( state , event , and process ) be relate in so far as some of their semantic property can be model in term of mereological ' part-of ' relation ( her , as a complete join semilattice ) , and this be what account for their systematic interaction . a second thesis be that the thematic structure of verb govern the seemingly disparate way in which the interaction between verbal predicate and nominal argument be manifest . and third , we can provide a unify analysis for the various interaction between verbal predicate and nominal argument within a constraint-base ( or unification-base ) approach to natural language description . the book also give a detail analysis of certain verbal affix ( chiefly prefix ) in slavic language , argue that they have the semantic property of quantifier , with the variable ( event or individual ) they bind also determine by the thematic structure of verb . this book will be of interest to a wide range of linguist concern with aspect and how it interact with lexical semantics , morphology , syntax and quantification . available for review e - mail : infor @ garland . com
