Subject: baltic 1998

baltic 1998 - - - first announcement intensive language course of latvian , lithuanian , and estonian as in the last 9 year , intensive course of the latvian , lithuanian , and estonian language be hold in bonn / germany in 1998 . these course , part-fund by muenster university , the federal state north - rhine - westphalium , and the robert - bosch - foundation , be design for beginner and comprise four phase . phase 1 . participant stay in haus annaberg , a turn-of - the-century manor house overlook bonn , between february 22 and april 2 , 1998 . class be taugt five hour per day , five day a week . emphasis be place on grammatical and lexical issue as well as on the development of read , write , and speak skill . lecture on geographical , sociological , and political issue will be hold on one weekend . phase 2 . dure the university summer term , participant be expect to continue their study in their own time , use course book and additional material . assignment be send out at regular interval by the teacher . phase 3 . student stay in latvium , lithuanium , or estonium for four week in september , 1998 . here , they study at the university of riga , vilnius , and tartu , respectively , four hour per day , five day a week . emphasis here be on conversation skill . class be complement with lecture and excursion . student live with guest family throughout their stay . phase 4 . this be the final examination , again in haus annaberg , bonn . it take place directly after the study period in the baltic . after successfully pass the exam , participant receive a certificate . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - participation be open to all student enroll in a german university or technical college . tuition fee : dm 1 , 350 . this include ten week intensive course , full board , all travel cost from bonn to the baltic state and back , examination , and teach material . registration deadline : 30 / 11 / 1997 . for further information please contact : dr . magdalene huelmann institut fuer interdisziplinaere baltische studien bispinghof 3a 48143 muenster germany phone + 49 - 251 - 83 2 44 99 fax + 49 - 251 - 83 2 44 56 email tenhagw @ uni-muenster . de ( wolfgang tenhagen ) www http : / / www . uni-muenster . de / slavbaltseminar /
