Subject: call : generative linguistic

the first announcement on - line conference " the 40 - th anniversary of generativism " 1-12 . 12 . 1997 since chomsky 's " syntactic structure " , publish in 1957 , the generative view in linguistics have become widely popular . thus , this year be the 40 - th anniversary of the publication . in past forty year the generative linguistics have pass several stage of development and currently it can be consider a broad and dynamically grow theory , have multiply link both within the linguistics and with other science . we see the goal of the conference as held an overall discussion on generative linguistics . the work of the conference should be organize in 4 section : section 1 . history & methodology . section 2 . current investigation in generative linguistics in all of it 's variant ( gb - theory , minimalistic program , etc . ) . section 3 . development perspective , unsolve problem . section 4 . interconnection with other science : biolinguistic , psyholinguistic , neurolinguistic , cognitive , computational , mathematical linguistics . the conference organize by the electronic journal " web journal of formal , computational & cognitive linguistic " ( http : / / www . ksu . ru / kazan / science / fccl / index . html ) . program committee chair be noam chomsky . all the material will be put on the web site of the journal . after the conference the material of the conference be to be publish in the journal , on cd and print as a book . submission & review procedures : paper selection and review procedure will be similar to those of a regular conference . all text must be in ascii . length of the paper be not limit . paper must be send to < generate . list @ ksu . ru > . the first 4 line of the message should consist of your name your email address the title of the paper number of your section our time-frame be : deadline for papers : october 20 , 1997 final program announce : november 20 , 1997 participation in the on-line conference will be carry out on the list generate . list that have be create for that purpose . to subscribe to this list , send the follow message to < generate . list @ ksu . ru > : subscribe generate . list yourfirstname yourlastname for example : subscribe generate . list bill johnson once you have receive confirmation of your subscription , you may send message to < generate . list @ ksu . ru > , and you will automatically receive all new message send to the list . a record of all receive message will be maintain on a specific web page at the conference site . participant may send their comment and question by means of the generate . list . everyone subscribe to the list will receive these message . if you wish to leave the list , send the follow message to < generate . list @ ksu . ru > : unsubscribe generate . list firstname lastname at the end of the conference participant will be automatically remove from the generate . list . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - valery solovyev editor " web journal of formal , computational & cognitive linguistic " kazan state university , dep . computer science , kazan , 420008 , russium e - mail : solovyev @ open . ksu . ra . ru - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
