Subject: call for paper : post - communist language change

call for paper the russian language and area study program at texa tech university announce a conference on " society , language , and culture in post - communist russium , the other former republic of the soviet union , and eastern europe . " the demise of communism in the soviet union and eastern europe have usher in a mass of change in nearly every aspect of the life of the people in these nation . there have be change not only in the political system , but also in the way the people of these nation lead their everyday life and perceive their place in the world . the fall of communism have alter the way the people in former communist country work , shop , rest , travel , etc . these change in day-to - day life combine with the removal of state control over literature and the press have affect the way the people of these nation write and the way they read . profound difference in language , style , and content can be find in the work of lead literary figure and in the page of any newspaper . similar change have take place in other sphere of art and life . how do the people of former communist country deal with decade of a communist cultural legacy ? do they attempt to return to their pre-communist heritage , hop to adapt these older cultural value to a modern world ? how do these nation deal with the deluge of social , material and cultural import from their long-time capitalist foe ? how do they cope with the collision of traditional , communist and mass culture and to what degree be element of each present in their culture today ? the conference will be hold april 2 - 4 , 1998 at texa tech university . depend upon our resource we hope to downlink the conference to other site around the nation . we also hope to publish a volume of select papers from the conference . paper and panel from all discipline and area be welcome . the deadline for proposal be jan . 15 , 1998 . please address proposal on language to erin collopy , proposal on literature to anthony qualin , and proposal on society , politics , or culture to lewi tracy at : classical and modern language and literature texa tech university lubbock , texa 70409-2071 proposal will also be accept by e-mail at : prof . collopy ( language ) : pverus @ ttac . ttu . edu prof . qualin ( literature ) : pvton @ ttac . ttu . edu prof . tracy ( society , politics , or culture ) : pvlew @ ttac . ttu . edu erin collopy visit assistant professor department of classical & modern language & literature texa tech university lubbock , tx 79409 ( 806 ) 742-3286 pverus @ ttac . ttu . edu
