Subject: toward culturally situate agent

* * * call for papers and participation * * * issue in cross cultural communication " towards culturally situated agents " http : / / www . nttmsc . com . my / kido / pricai98cfp . html 24th of november 1998 , singapore introduction culture underlie every aspect of social behavior and influence communication style , personality , character , motivation , knowledge and cognition . there be an extensive body of work on cross-cultural difference in communication style in the linguistics and cultural anthropology literature . in the intelligent user interface design community , over the year , fuel by the recognition that different type of user be motivate by different need and goal , attention have be give to the development of adaptive user interface . however , this line of research and development have give little consideration to the influence that culture play in shape what user want out of the computational experience . in order to create interface that accommodate different user style , therefore , it be important to understand these cultural influence , since , in many case , a user will react to interface on the basis of cultural background . similarly , if we be to view an agent , software or robot as a social member of a " cyber society , " then that agent must be able to invoke cultural knowledge in order to communicate flexibly with human user and possibly other agent . if agent be reflective only of their designer ' communicative behavior and be not able to adapt to the style of other agent which they meet in heterogeneous , distribute environment and virtual reality world , then our agent may be trap in a tower of babel . the goal of this workshop be to discuss cultural influence as they ( may ) inform interaction among human and software agent . this workshop be intend to attract participant from those community concern with such a perspective of communication . topics of interest the workshop aim to be interdisciplinary in nature and be therefore open to contribution from various research field . the topic which the workshop address be relevant , for instance , in : anthropology , sociology , sociolinguistic , human computer interaction ( hci ) , cscw , machine learn , adaptive system research , collaborative virtual environment , multi-medium multi-user environment , ethnology , social science , psychology and cognitive science . the scope of this workshop include , but need not be restrict to the follow topic : * the nature of cross cultural communication , include case study and example * the origin and evolution of communication * linguistic and ethnographic study of cross cultural communication * negotiation strategy among human from different cultural background * negotiation strategy among agent inform by different cultural principle * user interface and new media for cross cultural communication * the impact of internet technology on cross cultural communication * culturally situate metaphor in interface , machine and agent design * ethnomethodology in interface and agent design * culturally dependent metaphor and language of describe and talk about human , machine and agent : influence on the design process , theory / model build , and scientific experimentation * case study of program execution problem due to agent to agent and human to agent miscommunication * standard which be open to the development of multiple ontology of mult iagent communication in heterogeneous environment * work example of culturally adaptive agent in multiagent or human-agent system paper should address these topic in the context of how they relate to issue in agent design and agent behavior . participation and submission of paper the workshop will comprise a few keynote talk , a panel discussion with participant from different research area and presentation of preliminary finding by workshop participant . participant will be select by the organize committee ( see below ) base on submit papers . potential participant who wish to present their work at the workshop should submit a short paper ( up to 5 , 0 word ) or extend abstract ( 1 , 500 to 2 , 500 word ) . contribution should describe work in progress , complete work , position , or give significant insight into the issue on cross cultural communication . other potential participant should send a statement of interest ( one page ) , briefly describe their work and their interest in the workshop . some of the participant will be ask to contribute a paper to the final work note . all participant will be invite to bring a poster present their work . submission should be send by e-mail ( ascius , unix compatible postscript , or rtf ) to the workshop chair , takashus kido , msc-kido @ po1 . infosphere . or . jp for more information about the workshop , please contact the workshop chair , takashus kido , msc-kido @ po1 . infosphere . or . jp important dates * abstract / paper due by : july 18 1998 * notification of acceptance : september 20 , 1998 * camera - ready version of final paper due : october 18 , 1998 * deat of workshop : sunday , november 22 , 1998 organizing committee kido takashus ntt msc kualum lumpur , malaysium - - - - - - - - - patricium o'neill - brown asium pacific technology program u . s . department of commerce washington , dc , usa - - - - - - - - - - - kerstin dautenhahn department of cybernetic university of read uk - - - - - - - - - stephen smoliar fx palo alto laboratory us - - - - - - - - - workshop chair please send abstract / papers or any question to kido takashus ntt msc sdn bhd ( 437563 - h ) letter box no . 37 , 18th floor , ubn tower no . 10 . jalan p . ramlee , 50250 kualum lumpa , malaysium kualum lumpur , malaysium phone : + 60 3 238 4077 fax : + 60 3 238 4037 - 202 318 e - mail : msc-kido @ po1 . infosphere . or . jp
