Subject: lexical semantic tagge

lexical semantic tagge a special issue of the journal of natural language engineer guest editor : marc light and martha palmer call for papers note : deadline for submission be november 1st , 1998 compute semantic representation be crucial for many application of natural language process . currently , semantic lexicon and set of semantic composition rule be hand-craft by the designer of the nlp system . the difficulty of build such hand-craft semantic knowledge base have limit the field of nlp to application that can be contain within well-define subdomain . the likely escape from this limitation will come from the use of automate or semi-automate method of lexical acquisition . however , the field have yet to develop a clear consensus on a computational lexicon that could provide a springboard for such method . one of the most controversial area have to do with polysemy : what constitute a clear separation into senses of a word , and how can they be computationally characterize and distinguish ? the answer to this question be critical to break the bottleneck of broad coverage semantic representation computation . a first step toward find an answer lie in acquire annotate corpus that will facilitate the use of empirical method . the topic of this special issue be tag word token in corpus with lexical semantic information . a concrete example of such tag would be specify the sense of an ambiguous word , like { \ em bank } , be use in a particular sentence in a corpus . lexical semantic tag be critical to extend reliable co-reference for information extraction task , to widen the scope of response to information retrieval query , to more robust dialogue understand , and to machine translation . in machine translation in particular , it be often necessary to disambiguate a polysemous source word in order to translate it correctly , since the target language may have distinct lexical item for different senses . we solicit article which either : ( i ) discuss the characteristic of information to be tag and how human tag ( hand-tag ) can be perform so as to maximize accuracy . such article should concentrate on the specification of the task and also deal with issue in provide sufficient quantity of accurate and diverse hand-tag datum for the automatic approach . ( ius ) discuss attempt to develop automate method and their operation and performance . these article should describe actual run system and their design and implementation . we be particularly interest in discussion of lexical semantic tag method which be part of actual application . format : in the interest of provide more coverage , we will be consider papers that be somewhat shorter than traditional journal papers . this would allow us to accept a maximum of 9 article give an average length of 10 page . schedule : november 1st , 1998 : submission deadline february 15th , 1999 : notification of acceptance please send submission to : martha palmer institute for research in cognitive science 400a , 3401 walnut street / 6228 university of pennsylvanium philadlephium , pa 19104 telephone : ( 215 ) 898-0361 fax no . : ( 215 ) 573-9247 e-mail : mpalmer @ ci . upenn . edu
