Subject: new book on the state of modern american linguistic

the publish house of moscow state university have just release a new 455 - page hard cover book in russian which be a collection of survey on the state of modern american linguistics . " fundamental trends of modern american linguistics " ( " fundamental ' nye napravlenija sovremennoj amerikanskoj lingvistikus " ) be unique in its scope since it be the first ever comprehensive publication in russian which attempt to present diverse discipline within american linguistics aim at the russian - speak audience . the book consist of three major part : part i : generative grammar chapter 1 . brief history of the generative grammar ( john bailyn , suny at stony brook ) chapter 2 . a study of syntactic condition in the generative grammar ( konstantin kazenin & yakov testelec , mgu ) chapter 3 . the generative grammar and the free word order problem ( natasha kondarshova , cornell university ) chapter 4 . the generative grammar and russian linguistic : aspect and case ( natal ' ja isakadze & irina kobozeva , mgu ) part ii : other formal theories : phonology , semantics , psycholinguistics , and acquisition chapter 5 . phonology ( katya zubritskaya , nyu ) chapter 6 . formal semantic ( roumyana izvorska , u of pennsylvanium ) chapter 7 . psycholinguistic ( irina sekerina , u of pennsylvanium ) chapter 8 . acquisition ( sergey avrutin , yale university ) part iii : functional and cognitive theory chapter 9 . functionalism ( andrey kibrik and vladimir plungjan , mgu ) chapter 10 . semantic in cognitive linguistic ( alan cienkus , emory u ) chapter 11 . main concept of cognitive semantic ( ekaterina rakhilina , viniti ) appendix : the grammaticalum relevance of theme / rheme partition ( george fowler , indiana university ) index of language index of term the author and the editor make every attempt to concisely and accurately translate the linguistic term without which it be impossible to acquaint oneself with linguistic article in the original . the reader will find russian translation and definition of such syntactic term as " subjacency principle " , " spellout " , " island constraint " , phonological term such as " underspecification theory " , " onset principle " , " the ocp " , " optimality theory " , and many other include in the comprehensive 47 - page russian - english index . most of the phenomenon discuss be illustrate with russian example . please address your inquire to dr . irina sekerina at sekerina @ linc . cis . upenn . edu , an authorize representative . detail information be post at the follow url : http : / / www . ci . upenn . edu / ~ sekerina / book . htm irina sekerina the institute for research in cognitive science university of pennsylvanium
