Subject: wolfram and schill - este : american english

wolfram , walt and schill - este , natalie . ( 1998 ) . american english . oxford , u . k . : blackwell . isbn 0-631 - 20846 - 5 ( hardcover ) . rrp : us $ 59 . 95 ( hardcover ) 16 . 99 / us $ 29 . 95 the rich phonology of american " accent " be appreciate and instantly identifiable by non - american speaker of english worldwide , through television , radio and now ( perhap ) through the internet . however , the perceive homogeneity of the american way of speak as something uniquely " american " by these speaker of english , lie in stark contrast to the diversity of american english which be the domestic reality . in this excite revision of wolfram 's classic " dialect and american english " , wolfram and schill - este not only attempt to provide a detail account of the geographical and sociocultural distribution of certain kind of american english , through distinct dialect , grammar , and usage , but also attempt to dispel a number of urban ( and not-so - urban ) myth common among native american english speaker . the book begin by contrast the popular definition of " dialect " and their relative social desirability ( or otherwise ) , as perceive by native speaker who often feel they do not speak a dialect , with technical definition from linguistics in the context of the so-cal " desirability-deficit " debate . the work of schill - este in document the ocracoke english of north carolina , in particular , place her in a unique position to comment on language variation and the social issue involve in linguistic minority ( especially in attempt to dispel myth regard social desirability and dialect ) . the second chapter contrast linguistic and sociohistorical explanation of the process by which different dialect arise in language , and more generally , why language change over time . whilst the latter explanation see language and dialect as arise from the interaction of social and historical condition , such as migration , settlement , and language contact , the former view see language as dynamical system which have an inherent capacity and impetus to change , which arise from their structure . although some linguist be not directly concern with sociohistorical factor in language change , the author successfully integrate both viewpoint by examine general process such as grammaticalization in the context of specific example ( such as the new york city vernacular ) . however , those interest solely in a comprehensive review of distinctive american grammar , independent of social factor , should look elsewhere - this book be not a taxonomic ( and nor should it be ) . however , the third chapter which discuss level of dialect should be useful for understand the stratum of dialect in contemporary american speech . the fourth chapter provide a historical overview of the development of american dialect , from elizabethan influence and pre-revolutionary dialect , to the rise of the west coast and twentieth century accent . this chapter successfully use geographical diagram and map not only to demonstrate localise change in distinctive dialect feature ( such as r-lessness and r-fulness ) that have occur throughout the history of the unite state , but also to demonstrate the flow and influence of dialect during settlement of the interior , and how these change be relate to issue such as language contact and language borrow from native american . chapter 5 continue this process by develop example of regional dialect and variation from many area of the unite state . chapter 6 and 7 develop the idea of dialect beyond regional and geographical difference to encompass dialect change and difference base on social class , ethnicity and gender . these chapter consider key issue such as the pattern of social difference in language in the context of specific example , such as african american vernacular english ( aave ) . it be interest to note in this example that even though at least eight distinctive grammatical feature distinguish aave from the anglo american dialect , there be variation within each group sufficient to make comparison difficult for linguist . a more general case be examine with respect to interaction of three or more language , as be the case in robeson county nc , where native american constitute 40 % of the county population , where their accent be clearly dominant . chapter 8 and 9 move away from group analysis of dialect and language to question of individual language use and style , and the social distribution of these usage . theory of style shift , such as the attention to speech model , speech accommodation theory and the audience design model be review , and research method for understand individual speech act within paradigm that focus on group-base method be discuss ( include corpus method ) . group - exclusive dialect feature and dialect pattern be discuss in the context of research method such as implicational array to relate specific grammatical feature of different dialect . the book conclude with discussion of the relevance of an understand of accent and dialect to apply linguistics , an issue which be clearly important historically with the " desirability-deficit " debate and in contemporary education of english as a second language . in particular , the use of standardize test which be base around the recognition of standard english usage and grammar be criticize for be unrealistic ( as well as violate assumption of content validity ) . one solution may be to use a dialect consistency or achievement measure , and / or develop culturally and linguistically-appropriate test situation which do not make assumption about a language learner 's accent and / or social demographic . as the author recognise , these kind of aim be very difficult to implement , but certainly recognise the systematic bias in language test , and encourage dialect awareness in school , be a first step . wolfram and schill - este explicitly accommodate pedagogical usage of this book , by introduce key concept in capital , and include an exercise for student with each new section in the text . at the conclusion of each chapter , there be a very useful " further read " section which will also be useful to student , as will the glossary of common linguistic term at the end of the book . a skeletal phonetics chart be accompany by an appendix of socially-diagnostic structure , which will be useful for those work in clinical linguistics . the only criticism which could be level at the teach material in the book be that no solution be provide for the exercise , so perhap the development of a separate teacher 's guide ( especially for foreign or tesol instructor ) may be an appropriate future inclusion to this otherwise impressive account of american english . review by : paul a . watter , department of compute , school of mathematic , physic , compute and electronic , macquarie university nsw 2109 , australia . tel . : + 61 - 2-9850 - 9541 ; fax : + 61 - 2-9850 - 9551 ; e - mail : pwatter @ mpce . mq . edu . au . paul a . watter be a research officer at macquarie university in australium , and be currently work on computational representation of semantics in model of language and speech production , and be work on regional issue of language usage ( especially " on-line " language use ) . he be an associate editor of the south pacific journal of psychology .
