Subject: error in language learn .

jame , carl . ( 1998 ) . error in language learn and use : explore error analysis . london : longman . isbn 0 582 25763 - 8 ( paperback ) . rrp : 14 . 99 . the analysis of error in cognitive , linguistic and other psychological process have a long history date back to the introduction of signal detection theory in psychophysic and behavioural learn paradigm . although many apply linguist now favour interlanguage paradigm for second-language acquisition , error analysis ( ea ) be still widely use in language class . the attraction of ea lie in one 's ability to isolate variability in response , such as distinguish true error from " mistake " , which simple " correct / incorrect " paradigm tend to discard . in this new book on ea in language learn and usage , carl jame build on his earlier work on contrastive analysis and apply linguistics to further explore the role that performance error play in language acquisition ( particularly second-language acquisition ) . the book consist of a historical overview of ea in apply linguistics , and then embark on an ambitious attempt to both define and constrain the scope and methodology of ea in language process and language learn . this methodology include typology for classify and understand how error arise , as well as algorithmic specification for the diagnosis and error correction in clinical and educational setting . the first chapter aim to give a historical overview of ea in the context of its origin , its inspiration , its competitor , and its influence on second language teach . jame define an error as " an unsuccessful bite of language " ( p . 1 ) which seem to be as succinct and compact a description as i ' ve ever read ! however , this very readable style of write , whilst appear informal , be maintain through later chapter where discussion of technical issue could easily have be obfuscate by a poor write style . first - and second-order paradigm within language learn be describe in detail in this chapter , with the interlanguage and crosslinguistic approach compare with alternative such as ea and contrastive analysis . idiosyncratic and language-specific difficulty in language learnability be also cover in the context of linguistic change and metalinguistic influence on successful language acquisition . several method for collect datum in ea be informally introduce in this chapter ( e . g . , error elicitation such as the " broad trawl " ) , which naturally lead into the second chapter on define the scope of ea in language acquisition . the second chapter begin with an enlighten discussion of popular conception of what " proper " language be ( such as the king 's english ) , and catalogue the many fail attempt to enforce a " correct " dialect of english both in britain and asium ( the " complaint " tradition ) . this issue be clearly relevant for define exactly what an error be , give the absolutist attribution make by some educator and policy maker about the tenability or correctness of certain form of speak and write english ( i . e . , " standard " english ) . jame outline some typology for understand language norm base on geographical and historical constraint , but correctly identify deficiency in these scheme ( particularly the failure , for example , to understand the role of colonialism in language preference ) . this issue be take up with respect to the issue of power and authority of native speaker with respect to non-native speaker of english , and conversely how the desire to speak a second language can unwittingly result in language loss and native - language change . chapter 3 , 4 and 5 focus on the definition and description of error within the ea paradigm , have define the focus of the ea methodology in the previous chapter . jame begin by define learner ' ignorance of a target language in term of four category of deviance : grammaticality , acceptability , correctness and strangeness . it be a clear advantage of the author ' approach to ea that both grammatical / rational and performance / empirical approach to language acquisition be cover by his typology , thus not " take side " with one viewpoint or the other . this rationale be base on the idea that ea be a methodology rather than a theoretical prescription . this focus continue with a discussion of error detection method , in the context of locate and describe such error in different part of speech and indeed with respect to discourse longer than single sentence or phrase . the importance of a pluralistic approach which be tolerant of difference in dialect be emphasise , whilst ensure that objective and stationary criterion be apply to utterance and write within each dialect group . error taxonomy , such as feature and surface structure approach , be outline in detail with work example , which be one of the key design feature of the author ' pedagogical approach . computer - assist analysis of error be also discuss , as be specific algorithmic approach to rate level of error in lexical and grammatical process . the next two chapter focus on diagnose error and evaluate their seriousness and impact for second-language learner in particular . possible negative influence , such as interlingual error arise from conflict between the target language and mother tongue , be treat in detail , as be intralingual error and inconsistency which the non-native speaker encounter for the first time in the target language , such as over-generalisation and false analogy . in addition , the role of culture in influence and perhap determine some aspect of linguistic behaviour be discuss , for example , how native speaker may " gate " a non-native speaker . error gravity and comprehensibility be also cover , as be some amuse example give for " the irritation factor " . the sociopragmatic consequence of error production in social situation , and the potentially negative outcome for non-native speaker , be also discuss . chapter 8 discuss pragmatic strategy for use ea to correct error in speech and write for second language learner . these be enhance by a number of case study present in chapter 9 . the issue cover in these last two chapter be non-trivial for apply linguistics : be second - language teach effective ? if so , which approach be best suit to particular kind of student ? are formal / grammatical or informal / conversational approach superior ? although jame provide no magic answer for any of these question , he do present a coherent methodology for answer these kind of question for individual situation , which be the great appeal of this book . this book would be suitable as an undergraduate or graduate text in apply linguistics or tesl program , but will be an invaluable reference for researcher in relate field such as psycholinguistic and machine translation , who may be search for a more formal methodology for understand error production in their respective field . this book will be an indispensable addition to every linguist 's library . review by : paul a . watter , department of compute , school of mathematic , physic , compute and electronic , macquarie university nsw 2109 , australia . tel . : + 61 - 2-9850 - 9541 ; fax : + 61 - 2-9850 - 9551 ; e - mail : pwatter @ mpce . mq . edu . au . paul a . watter be a research officer at macquarie university in australium , and be currently work on computational representation of semantics in model of language and speech production , as well as develop pragmatic approach to machine translation . he be an associate editor of the south pacific journal of psychology .
