Subject: book on functional linguistic

john benjamin publish would like to call your attention to the four follow title in the field of functional linguistic : reconnecting language : morphology and syntax in functional perspectives a . . - m . simon - vandenbergen , k . davidse and d . niel ( ed ) ( univ . of gent / univ . of leuven / univ . of gent ) 1997 . xius , 212 pp . current issue in linguistic theory , 154 us / canada : hb : 1 55619 870 1 price : usd 79 . 0 rest of the world : hb 90 272 3659 3 price : nlg 158 , - - although the contributor to this book do not belong to one particular 's chool ' of linguistic theory , they all share an interest in the external function of language in society and in the relationship between these function and internal linguistic phenomenon . in this sense , they all take a functional approach to grammatical issue . apart from this common starting-point , the contribution share the aim of demonstrate the non-autonomous nature of morphology and syntax , and the inadequacy of linguistic model which deal with syntax , morphology and lexicon in separate , independent component . the recurrent theme throughout the book be the inseparability of lexis and morphosyntax , of structure and function , of grammar and society . the third and more specific common thread be case , which in some contribution be adduce to illustrate the more general point of the link between word form on the one hand and clausal and textual relation on the other hand , while in other papers it be at the centre of the discussion . the interest of the propose volume consist in the fact that it bring together the view of lead scholar in functional linguistics of various 'd enomination ' on the place of morphosyntax in linguistic theory . the book provide convince argumentation against a modular theory with autonomous level ( the dominant framework in mainstream 20th century linguistics ) and be a plea for further research into the connection between the lexicogrammar and the linguistic and extra-linguistic context . contribution by : m . a . k . halliday ; c . hagege ; robert de beaugrande ; pew sgall ; stanley starosta ; william mcgregor ; anna siewierska ; marja - liisa helasvuo ; karen e . robblee ; alouse caffarel ; motoko horus . the linguistics of giving john newman ( ed . ) ( massey university , new zealand ) 1997 . xv , 373 pp . typological study in language , 36 us / canada : hb : 1 55619 647 4 price : usd 98 . 0 pb : 1 55619 648 2 price : usd 34 . 95 rest of the world : hb : 90 272 2933 3 price : nlg 196 , - - pb : 90 272 2934 1 price : nlg 70 , - - in this collection of papers , twelve linguist explore a range of interest property of ' give ' verb . the volume offer an in-depth look at many morphological , syntactic , and semantic property of ' give ' verb , include both literal and figurative senses , across language . topic include : an apparent zero-morpheme realization of ' give ' in a papuan language ; noun plus causative-like suffix express the ' give ' concept in nahuatl ; ' give ' and other ditransitive construction in zulu ; the complex verbal morphology associate with ' give ' verb in chipewyan , cos , and sochiapan chinantec ; the elaborate classificatory system find with ' give ' verb in chipewyan and cos ; ' give ' , ' have ' and ' take ' construction in slavic language ; the expression of ' give ' in american sign language ; the origin of the german e gibt construction ; the extension of ' give ' to an adverbial marker in thaus , khmer , and vietnamese ; the syntax and semantics of dutch ' give ' ; first language acquisition of possession term . contribution by : john robert , david tuggy , john taylor , sally rice , eugene casad , phylli perrin wilcox , david fori , laura janda , theo janssen , john newman , jae jung song , and michael tomasello . information status and noncanonical word order in english . betty birner & gregory ward 1998 xiv 314 pp . study in language companion sery 40 us / canada : hb : 1 55619 926 0 price : 69 . 0 rest of the world : hb : 90 272 3043 9 price : nlg 138 , - - this work provide a comprehensive discourse-functional account of three class of noncanonical constituent placement in english - prepose , postpose , and argument reversal - and show how their interaction be account for in a principle and predictive way . in do so , it detail the variety of way in which information can be ' give ' or new ' and show how an understand of this variety allow us to account for the distribution of these construction in discourse . moreover , the author show that there exist broad and empirically verifiable functional correspondence within class of syntactically similar construction . rely heavily on corpus datum , the author identify three interact dimension along which individual construction may vary with respect to the pragmatic constraint to which they be sensitive : old v . new information , relative v . absolute familiarity , and discourse - v . hearer-familiarity . they show that prepose position be reserve for information that be link to the prior discourse by means of a contextually license partially-order set relationship ; postpose position be reserve for information that be ' new ' in one of a small number of distinct senses ; and argument-reverse construction require that the information represent by the preverbal constituent be at least as familiar within the discourse as that represent by the postverbal constituent . within each of the three class of construction , individual construction vary with respect to whether they be sensitive to familiarity within the discourse or ( assume ) familiarity within the hearer 's knowledge store . thus , although the individual construction in question be subject to distinct constraint , this work provide empirical evidence for the existence of strong correlation between sentence position and information status . the final chapter present crosslinguistic datum show that these correlation be not limit to english . the structure of the lexicon in functional grammar hellum olbertz , kee hengeveld & jesus sanchez garcium ( ed . ) ( university of amsterdam ) 1998 . xius , 312 pp . study in language companion sery , 43 us / canada : hb : 1 55619 929 5 price : usd 69 . 0 rest of the world : hb : 90 272 3046 3 price : nlg 138 , - - the papers collect in this volume concern five different aspect of the role of the lexicon in the theory of functional grammar as develop by simon c . dik and his co-worker . the volume start off with a practical introduction to the functional - lexematic model and model application to english , german and spanish be present . the second part of the volume deal with the derivation of action-noun , pseudo-reflexive verb and causative construction , thus offer new perspective on predicate formation within functional grammar . this be follow by a section that center around an important problem relate to valency : the question of how to account for the collocational property of predicate . the fourth part of the book discuss ( non-prototypical ) transitive verb and their relation to the typology of state of affair . the final section focus on the relationship between the lexicon and the underlie structure of the clause . check out the john benjamin web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com /
