Subject: cimca ' 99

final call for paper international conference on computational intelligence for model , control and automation cimca ' 99 17-19 february 1999 vienna - austrium http : / / www-gscit . fcit . monash . edu . au / conference / cimca99 14 august 1998 deadline for submission of extend abstract honorary chair : lotfus a . zadeh , university of californium , usa general chair : masoud mohammadian , monash university ( australium ) second call for papers the international conference on computational intelligence for model , control and automation will be hold in vienna , austrium on 17-19 february 1999 . the conference provide a medium for the exchange of idea between theoretician and practitioner to address the important issue in computational intelligence , model , control and automation . the conference will consist of both plenary session and contributory session , focus on theory , implementation and application of computational intelligence technique to model , control and automation . for contributory session , extend abstract papers be be solicit . several well-known keynote speaker will address the conference . topic include , but be not limit to , the follow area : modern and advance control strategy : neural network control , fuzzy logic control , genetic algorithm & evolutionary control , model - predictive control , adaptive and optimal control , intelligent control system , robotic and automation , fault diagnosis , intelligent agent , industrial automation hybrid system : fuzzy evolutionary system , fuzzy expert system , fuzzy neural system , neural genetic system , neural - fuzzy - genetic system , hybrid system for optimisation data analysis , prediction and model identification : signal process , prediction & time sery analysis , system identification , data fusion and data mine , knowledge discovery , intelligent information system , image process , image understand , parallel compute application in identification & control , pattern recognition , cluster , classification decision make and information retrieval : case - base reason , decision analysis , intelligent database & information retrieval , dynamic system model , decision support system , multus - criterion decision make , qualitative and approximate - reason model paper submission paper will be select base on their originality , significance , correctness , and clarity of presentation . four copy of extend abstract ( 500-800 word ) should be submit to the follow address : cimca ' 99 secretariat school of compute & information technology monash university gippsland campus switchback rd , churchill 3842 victorium , australium extend abstract should present original work , which have not be publish or be review for other conference . important date 14 august 1998 deadline for submission of extend abstract 21 september 1998 notification of acceptance 23 november1998 deadline for camera-ready copy of accept papers 17-19 february 1999 conference session special session and tutorial special session and tutorial will be organise at the conference . the conference be call for special session and tutorial proposal . all proposal should be send to the conference chair before november 23rd , 1998 . cimca ' 99 will also include a special poster session devote to recent work and work-in - progress . abstract be solicit for this session ( 3 page limit ) may be submit up to 30 day before the conference date . invite session keynote speaker from academia and industry will be address the main issue of the conference . international program committee : h . adeli , the ohio state university , usa b . kosko , university of southern californium , usa a . kandel , university of south florida , usa t . fukuda , nagoya university , japan t . baeck , informatic centrum dortmund , germany j . bezdek , university of west florida , usa k . hirota , tokyo institute of technology , japan g . dorffner , university of vienna , austrium e . oja , helsinkus university of technology , finland w . pedrycz , university of manitoba , canada x . yao , the university of new south wale , adfa , australium h . r . berenjus , nasa ame research center , usa r . c . eberhart , purdue university , usa a . y . zomaya , university of western australium , australium t . shiba , miti , ministry of international trade and industry , japan h . liljenstrom , royal institute of technology , sweden f . herrera , university of granada , spain a . bulsarus , ab nonlinear solution oy , finland b . bignall , monash university , australium j . d . pinter , dalhousie university , canada v . piurus , politecnico dus milano , italy t . furuhashus , nagoya university , japan a . aamodt , norwegian university of science and technology , norway t . yamakawa , kyushu institute of technology , japan l . guan , university of sydney , australium j . fernandez de caete , university of malaga , spain w . duch , nichola copernicus , university , poland e . tulunay , middle east technical university , turkey c . kuroda , tokyo institute of technology , japan international liaison : canada and usa liaison : j . d . pinter , dalhousie university , canada europe liaison : r . john , de montfort university , uk z . pahlavanus , avip , austrium local arrangement and public relation : zohra pahlavanus , avip , austrium christina meier , australium publicity : henry selvaraj monash university ( australium ) robert john , de montfort university ( uk ) publication : baikunth nath , monash university , australium masoud mohammadian , ( chair ) , monash university , australium j . d . pinter , dalhousie university , canada visit and social event sightsee visit will be arrange for the delegate and guest . a separate program will be arrange for companion during the conference . for further information either contact cimca99 @ fcit . monash . edu . au or see the conference homepage at : http : / / www-gscit . fcit . monash . edu . au / conference / cimca99
