Subject: complexity in language contact , acquisition and change

newsletter 1 . workshop on complexity in language contact , acquisition and change . 8 september 1998 , pari , france . in colaboration with the cnrs ( centre national de recherche scientifique ) , the lot ( netherland graduate school of linguistic ) be organize some workshop to create a forum to encourage the discussion between researcher in linguistics from the netherland and france . one of the workshop be initiate by member of the university of amsterdam and have as its subject : complexity in language contact , acquisition and change . the workshop will take place on tuesday the 8th of september , start at 14 . 30 until approximately 20 . 00h . the theme although there be a kind of dogma that all natural language be equally complex , at least for certain subsystem of language there may well be difference in complexity . in discussion of process of language change and first and second language acquisition the notion of complexity play an important role . especially in creole study simplicity and complexity implicitly have be dominant issue in the debate , but be seldom properly scrutinize . in this workshop we want to discuss the role of complexity in these domain , include grammatical theory , first and second language acquisition , language change and language contact - in order to shed light on controversial problem invoke by the term complexity in linguistics in general . the structure of the workshop the workshop be organize around three theme : creole language , language acquisition and language change . each theme will be discuss by researcher from france and the netherland in 10 minute presentation , inspire by the follow proposition . after these short presentation there will be time for discussion in each session . 1 . all language have the same " cost / payment " balance , i . e . if a language become phonologically more simple , its morphological system will become more complex . [ cf . haugen 1976 : 286 ] 2 . all complexity in language reside in the lexicon . [ cf . aronoff 1995 ] 3 . language speak within small community be more complex than language of large community . [ cf . whinnom 1980 , hyme 1971 , mhlhusler 1996 ] 4 . language shift will in general lead to simplification , while borrow will lead generally to more complex structure . [ cf . thomason & kaufman 1988 ] 5 . complexity do not play a role in first language acquisition , but it do in second language acquisition . [ cf . trudgill 1992 ] 6 . grammaticalization lead to greater complexity . [ labov 1990 , bickerton 1981 ] programme 14 . 30 chair and open pieter muysken ( university of amsterdam / leiden ) 14 . 35 : introduction hadewych van rheeden ( university of amsterdam ) wouter kuster ( university of amsterdam ) 14 . 55 : language acquisition elisabeth van der linden ( university of amsterdam ) daniel veronique ( universit de la sorbonne nouvelle , pari iii ) colette noyau ( universit de pari x ) peter coopman ( university of utrecht ) 15 . 55 : break 16 . 15 : creole jacque arend ( university of amsterdam ) adrienne bruyn ( university of amsterdam ) karl gadelius ( university of gteborg ) andree tabouret - keller ( universit de strasbourg ) 17 . 15 : break chair : to be announce 17 . 35 : language change marc van oostendorp ( university of amsterdam / leiden ) fred weerman ( university of utrecht ) colette feuillard ( universit ren descart , pari v ) muriel norde ( university of amsterdam ) francoise gadet ( universit de pari x ) 19 . 0 : general discussion . 20 . 0 : drink and dinner . please let us know if you be interest to join this workshop . if you need more information , just contact wouter kuster and / or hadewych van rheeden : wouter . kuster @ let . uva . nl h . a . van . rheeden @ let . uva . nl another workshop will be hold on wednesday the 9th , on the subject of compet principle in learner variety , organize within the same join programme of lot and cnrs . these workshop be immediately follow by the euroslum 8 conference on second language acquisition . for more information on the euroslum 8 look at http : / / www . kun . nl / ttmb / news . html . in the next newsletter the exact location of the workshop will be announce .
