Subject: book on semantic

john benjamin publish would like to call your attention to the follow new title in the field of semantic : nominal classification in aboriginal australia marc harvey & nichola reid ( ed . ) university of newcastle / university of new england 1997 . x , 296 pp . study in language companion sery , 37 us / canada : hb : 1 55619 848 5 price : usd 89 . 0 rest of the world : hb : 90 272 3040 4 price : nlg 178 , - - this volume aim to extend both the range of analysis and the database on nominal classification system . previous analysis of nominal classification system have focus on two area : the semantics of the classification system and the role of the system in discourse . in many nominal classification system , there appear to be a significant percentage of nominal with an arbitrary classification . there be a considerable body of literature aim at elucidate the semantic base of classification in such system , thereby reduce the degree of apparent arbitrariness . contributor to this volume continue this line of enquiry , but also propose that arbitrariness in itself have a role from a wider socio-cultural perspective . previous analysis of the discourse role of classification system posit that they play a significant role in referential track . for the language survey in this volume , contributor propose that reference instantiation be an equally significant function , and indeed that reference instantiation and track cannot be properly divide from one another . this volume provide detail information on classification in a number of northern australian language , whose system be otherwise poorly know . content : introduction ; nominal classification and gender in aboriginal australium ; new guinea ' classificatory verb ' and australian noun classification : a typological comparison ; head class and agreement class in the mayalus dialect chain ; head and agreement class : an areal perspective ; class and classifier in ngin ' gityemerrus ; nominal classification in marrithiyel ; noun class , nominal classification and generic in murrinhpatha . contribution by : mark harvey ; nichola reid ; fransesca merlin ; steve powell robert ; alan rumsey ; nichola evan ; ian green ; michael walsh . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - bernadette martinez - keck tel : ( 215 ) 836-1200 publicity / market fax : ( 215 ) 836-1204 john benjamin north america e-mail : bernie @ benjamin . com po box 27519 philadelphium pa 19118-0519 check out the john benjamin web site : http : / / www . benjamin . com
