Subject: special issue of cl journal - finite state method in nlp

call for papers computational linguistics special issue on finite state methods in natural language processing recent year have see a substantial increase in the use of finite state technique in many aspect of natural language process as mature tool for build large scale finite-state system from various research laboratory and university become available . this trend be by no means foresee as late as ten year ago give the well-known demonstration by noam chomsky in 1957 that finite-state method be inherently incapable of represent the full richness of construction in a natural language . nevertheless , it be evident now that there be many subset of natural language that be adequately cover by finite-state means and that there be many other area where finite-state approximation of more powerful formalism be of great practical benefit . as a follow-up to the fsmnlp ' 98 , international workshop on finite state method in natural language process , it be propose that a collection of papers in this area be publish as a special issue of the computational linguistic journal . we would to encourage author of the papers present at this workshop , as well as all other who would like to contribute , to submit full version of their papers for consideration for this special issue . guest editor : laurus karttunen ( xerox research centre europe , france ) kemal oflazer ( bilkent university , turkey ) guest editorial board eric brill ( john hopkin university , md , usa ) eva ejerh ( umea university , sweden ) ronald m . kaplan ( xerox palo alto research center , ca , usa ) martin kay ( xerox palo alto research center , ca , usa ) george kiraz ( bell laboratory , nj , usa ) andr kornaus ( bbn , ma , usa ) mehryar mohrus ( at&t lab research , nj , usa ) mark - jan nederhof ( dfki , germany ) atro voutilainen ( university of helsinkus , finland ) submission detail please submit 6 copy of your hard-copy manuscript to laurus karttunen xerox research centre europe 6 chemin de maupertui meylan , 38240 , france by monday , october 19 , 1998 . the format of the submission should follow the general submission requirement of the journal . manuscript for computational linguistic should be submit on letter-size paper ( 8 . 5 by 11 inch , or a4 ) , double-space throughout , include footnote and reference . the paper should begin with an informative abstract of approximately 150-250 word . manuscript must be write in english .
