Subject: major variety of english

second international conference on major variety of english maven ii lincoln university campus , england september 9-11 , 1999 conference theme : the english language today : function and representation plenary speaker include : nichola coupland ( university of wale , cardiff ) eric fudge ( university of read ) salikoko mufwene ( university of chicago ) paper proposal be invite on all aspect of the use of major variety of english today , in particular on the follow theme : formal and functional development and change in english mediate use of english international profile of english english and corporate culture english language in literature english and world communication compet target variety fo learner text and corpus analysis etc . submission of paper proposal abstract of paper proposal should be no more than 250 word in length , and should be double space . please submit three copy , one with name , affiliation and personal detail ( address for correspondence , phone / fax number , e . mail address ) . please mention at the bottom what area or theme you believe your abstract cover ( e . g . pragmatic , medium language , dialectology , political sociology etc . ) send abstract to reach no later than dec . 15 , 1998 to : p . b . nayar faculty of art and technology lincoln university campus brayford pool lincoln , ls6 7ts unite kingdom abstract may also be submit as an attachment to e . mail ( one copy with all information require ) to : pnayar @ ulh . ac . uk registration full conference package : registration + on campus accommodation for two night + two breakfast 150 registarion only : 120 daily registration : 45 conference dinner on 10 / 9 / 99 25 ( optional ) all rate include lunch ( e ) and refreshments on the day of attendance . there will be a late surcharge on registration receive after june 1 , 1999 all presenter will receive detail information package . for enqury and additional information , contact : the conference secretary - maven ii faculty of art and technology lincoln university campus brayford pool lincoln , ln6 7ts u . k . tel : + 44 1522 886251 fax : + 44 1522 886021 e . mail : pnayar @ ulh . ac . uk information and update also available on our website at www . lincoln . ac . uk / communication
