Subject: spanish in the united states conference

preliminary announcement and call for paper : 17th conference on spanish in the unite state florida international university miamus , florida march 11 , 12 , 13 , 1999 keynote speaker : to be announce in fall 1998 abstract for twenty-minute papers be invite on the follow general topic relate to spanish in the unite state : language policy and plan , language variation , discourse analysis , language maintenance and shift , language attitude , test , heritage language education , language in public life . person interest in present a paper at the conference be request to submit five copy of a one-page abstract of the paper . the abstract should be accompany by a separate page state the title of the paper , your name , affiliation , institutional address , your telephone number , include fax , and e-mail , and the address at which you wish to receive a notification concern acceptance of the paper . please do not identify yourself on the abstract itself . abstract must be receive by october 19 , 1998 . query and abstract should be address to : dr . ana roca , conference chair department of modern language deuxieme maison 498a florida international university university park miamus , fl 33199 305-348 - 2046 rocaa @ fiu . edu ( please post and share ) hotel information : full information will be post in fall 1998 in the linguist list . we have make definite arrangement with the david william hotel and the biltmore hotel ( in coral gable ) . conference participant can stay at the david william hotel at a negotiate rate of $ 99 / night and will have all privilege at the biltmore hotel ( a luxury hotel in a historic build ) because both hotel be under the same management and coorporation now . the biltmore be only about four or five block away and you can walk or take the hotel shuttle there . the conference will be hold at the biltmore and at florida international university . if you wish to make early reservation , call the david william hotel at 305-445 - 7821 and mention that it be for fiu 's " spanish in the u . s . " conference march 11-13 , 1999 at the agree upon rate . space be limit . note : query will be answer as soon as possible after august 16 , 1998 and a conference registration form will be post soon and can also be mail to you as early as fall 1998 at the start of the new academic year .
