Subject: linguistic theory

dominique sportiche , partitions and atoms of clause structure subject , agreement , case and clitic this collection build on the theory of principle and parameter and its economy - - minimalist descendant . the essay progressively develop a view of syntactic structure in which syntactic property be increasingly analyze as atomize in progressively smaller elementary component and partition in the way these elementary component be represent . dominique sportiche argue that as a consequence of this view , language do not differ at all in their syntactic organization . routledge lead linguist routledge : 1998 : 448 pp cl : 0 415 16926 7 : # d4946 : $ 110 . 0 laura a . michaeli , aspectual grammar and past time reference this work examine the linguistic construction which speaker use to talk about event that occur in the past and state which hold in the past . laura michaeli argue that the fundamental conceptual division between event and state form the basis of system of verbal aspect in all language , and that one cannot talk about the mean of a past-tense assertion without make reference to the event-state distinction . focus on english datum , the author examine the semantic and functional overlap between assertion about the past and assertion involve event : when one assert that an event of a give kind exist , one be make an assertion about the past . this semantic overlap can be evoke as a way of characterize the close relationship between the past-tense construction and the past-perfect construction : while a past tense assertion like she leave be use to describe the past , a present-perfect assertion like she have leave be use to assert the existence of an event by invoke its aftermath ( her absence ) . dr . michaeli argue that the two construction be semantically equivalent , but distinguish by their function in narrative . this study present a semantic framework for analyze all aspectual construction in term of the event-state distinction , and describe the grammatical expression of aspectual mean in term of a theory of grammatical construction . in this theory , grammatical construction , like word , be conventionalize form-mean pair , which be best describe not only with respect to their intrinsic semantic value , but also with respect to the functional opposition in which they participate . michaeli argue that many of the otherwise puzzle grammatical constraint which characterize the english present-perfect construction can be motivate in term of the functional opposition between present perfect and past tense . routledge study in germanic linguistic 4 routledge : 1998 : 320 pp cl : 0 415 15678 5 : # d4385 : $ 90 . 0 asa kasher , ed , pragmatics 6 volume set the purpose of this collection be to portray the development of pragmatic as a science of language , in a such a way as to enable reader to critically assess this theorectical development . issue explore include * presupposition * implicature * discourse * grammar * communication * indexical * psychology * sociology . this work provide highly useful reference and suggestion for further read , and have an exceptionally detail subject and name index to enable easy and immediate access for the reader . critical concept routledge : 1998 : 2653 pp cl : 0 415 11734 8 : # d2960 : $ 905 . 0 for more information on these and other title from : routledge london * new york in north america : www . routledge-ny . com elsewhere : www . routledge . com
