Subject: special volume on relevance theory

dear all , at the end of this month a special volume of our international journal " revista alicantina de estudio inglese " ( raei ) , entirely devote to relevance theory , will be publish . here you be the contents : revista alicantina de estudios ingleses volume 11 ( 1998 ) editor : jose mateo and francisco yus content preface dan sperber and deirdre wilson the possible place of relevance theory in a cognitive explanation of literature josus lui guijarro university of cadiz unembed definite description and relevance robert j . stainton carleton university phatic interpretation : standarisation and conventionalisation steve nicolle & billy clark middlesex university is relevance theory asocial ? mark jary university of london arouse the receiver 's involvement by flout the communicative principle marisa dmez arroyo university of oviedo process for relevance marjolein groefsema university of hertfordshire relevance : a thematic bibliographical list ( more than 500 reference ) francisco yus university of alicante relevance and the translation of poetry marta dahlgren thorsell university of vigo relevance and modality josus lui berbeira gardsn university of cadiz communication , information , and relevance fernando garcma murga universidad autsnoma de madrid when be relevance ? on the role of salience in utterance interpretation rachel giora tel aviv university communication in relevance theory nathalie franken * universitus libre de bruxelle root of miscommunication elena schmitt university of south carolina rhetorical question , relevance and scale javier gutiirrez rexach the ohio state university against blur the explicit / implicit distinction begoqa vicente cruz universidad del pam vasco uned , madrid be relevant ( relevance , translation and cross culture ) jose mateo university of alicante interpersonal communication and context accessibility in the interpretation of ironic utterance . a case study : rastell 's version of la celestina m * angele ruiz moneva university of zaragoza those analyst will to buy a copy of the volume should send me an e-mail , as soon as possible , provide an address where they can be contact in july . they will be send an order form to be return with such detail as credit card number , etc . the price of the volume will be 3000 peseta ( roughly 26 dollar , 13 pound ) . if you intend to attend the forthcome workshop on relevance theory to be hold in middlesex next september , you will also be able to buy the volume there , fill a form or buy a copy if available ( there will be some copy on display ) . i would be grateful if those intend to buy the volume there also send me an e-mail let me know , so that i can work out how many copy of the volume i should send to the workshop . i look forward to hear from you . cordially , - dr . francisco yus university of alicante department of english study http : / / www . ua . e / dfing apartado 99 , e-03080 alicante ( spain ) e-mail : francisco . yus @ alc . e ( home ) e-mail : francisco . yus @ ua . e ( university ) tel : ( 96 ) 5103527 ( home ) tel : ( 96 ) 5903400 - ext : 3027 ( university )
