Subject: lacl98 ( logical aspect of computational ling 98 )

logical aspects of computational linguistics ( lacl98 ) third ( final ) call for papers deadline extension : august 7 , 1998 conference time and place : 14-16 december 1998 projet calligramme ( loria ) universite pierre mend - france , grenoble 2 france theme the lacl conference provide a platform for the presentation of new and original research on the use of logical technique , both model-theoretic and proof-theoretic , in the field of computational linguistics . the first two edition of the conference be hold in nancy ( france ) , in september 1996 and 1997 . proceeding of these event be publish in the springer lecture note in artificial intelligence series . see http : / / www . lorium . fr / ~ retore / le . html for more information . from lacl98 on , the conference will operate on a bi-annual schedule , so as to optimize the alternation with relate event . invited speakers makoto kanazawa ( chiba ) [ * ] per martin - lof ( stockholm ) fernando pereira ( att research ) [ * ] [ * ] confirm topics of interest we hereby invite computational linguist , logician , computer scientist and / or philosopher to submit papers describe original and unpublish research relate to the conference theme . topic of interest include , but be not limit to : - logical foundation of computational grammar formalism ; - model-theoretic and proof-theoretic method in linguistics ; - constraint-base and resource-sensitive approach to grammatical analysis ; - linguistic application of linear logic , type theory ; - - computational complexity of type logic and feature logic ; - - natural-language interface for automate theorem prover submissions the lacl98 conference have an electronic referee procedure . submission consist of two part : - a page contain the title of the paper , the name and affiliation of the author ( s ) , e-mail and postal address ( e ) . format : plain ascii . - an abstract of maximally 4 page ( include figure and reference ) , contain the title of the contribution , but not the name of the author ( s ) . format : plain ascii , or ( preferably ) postscript , dvi , pdf ( in a unix compatible mode , if encode ) . deadline extension : submission have to be send to the follow e-mail address , before august 7 , 1998 : e-mail : lacl98 @ let . ruu . nl the notification of acceptance will be send out the first week of september . the collection of the select abstract will be available at the conference . after the conference , author be invite to submit a full paper ( up to 20 page ) for publication . the final papers will appear in a special volume of the springer - verlag series of lecture note in computer science ( lncs / lnai ) . important dates august 7 , 1998 : 4 - page abstract due 1st week of september 1998 : notification of acceptance 1st week of november 1998 : final 4 - page abstract due december 14-16 , 1998 : conference date program commitee chair : michael moortgat ( ots , utrecht ) johan van benthem ( illc , amsterdam ) gosse bouma ( groningen ) vijay shanker ( delaware ) erhard hinrich ( tuebingen ) mary dalrymple ( xerox parc ) ruy de queiroz ( ufpe , sao paolo ) francoi lamarche ( inria nancy ) christian retore ( inria renn ) uwe reyle ( ims stuttgart ) organising commitee chair : alie lecomte ( grenoble ) deni vernant ( pl&c ) , jean - michel adam ( imss ) , claude jeannin ( ufr shs ) , catherine finkel ( upmf ) addresses for information relate to the conference organisation , contact : alie lecomte departement imss universite pierre mend - france bp 47 x 38040 grenoble cedex 9 france tel : + 33 4 76 82 78 52 fax : + 33 4 76 82 56 65 e-mail : alie . lecomte @ upmf-grenoble . fr http : / / www-bshm . upmf-grenoble . fr / ~ alecomte for information relate to the conference program and submission procedure , contact : michael moortgat utrecht institute of linguistic ots tran 10 3512 jk utrecht the netherland tel : + 31 30 2536043 fax : + 31 30 2536406 e-mail : michael . moortgat @ let . ruu . nl http : / / www-uilot . let . ruu . nl / user / uilot / moortgat / home . html conference url the lacl98 homepage will be regularly update with conference information : http : / / www-bshm . upmf-grenoble . fr / lacl98
