Subject: contrastive linguistic and translation

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - call for paper and participation symposium contrastive linguistics and translation studies empirical approaches universit catholique de louvain louvain - la - neuve , belgium 5 - 6 february , 1999 introduction over the last few year an important change have take place in research into contrastive linguistics and translation study . wherea previously both field have draw on largely introspective methodology , most research be now conduct on large body of bilingual or multilingual datum , a change which have have the important effect of provide the two discipline with a much more solid empirical basis . many researcher be now work with computerise datum , in many case use specifically design linguistic software tool to conduct automatic or semi-automatic analysis . bilingual concordancer be a case in point . research project along these line be become more widespread throughout the academic community and initial result be highly encourage , reveal the enormous potential of computerise corpus analysis both for contrastive linguistics and translation study . of course many researcher be still opt to use purely manual method of analysis : indeed for many type of linguistic analysis ( semantic or discourse analysis for example ) , they will remain the only option for the foreseeable future . it be also notable that there be very few bilingual computer corpus available . for many therefore , the use of manual method may not be a question of choice . this symposium be intend to bring together specialist in the field of contrastive linguistics and translation study conduct research on bilingual or multilingual corpus of any type . one important objective will be to demonstrate to what extent detail corpus analysis can support , contradict or refine introspective contrastive analysis . another key aim be to examine the strength and weakness of manual and automatic method of datum analysis . and lastly , the meet will provide a valuable opportunity to exchange and share datum , a step on the way to set up an international multilingual databank available to everyone work in the field . symposium topic below be a non-exhaustive list of subject area which we hope to address during the symposium : - contrastive lexicology ( in particular , contrastive phraseology ) - bilingual / multilingual lexicography - contrastive semantics - contrastive syntax - contrastive pragmatic - compile and exploit bilingual / multilingual computerise corpus - software tool for the analysis of bilingual corpus ( bilingual concordance , automatic alignment , multilingual part-of - speech tag , etc . ) - bilingual corpus and automatic / computer-aid translation language english and french will be the two official symposium language , with most papers give in english . symposium venue the symposium will take place in louvain - la - neuve , an entirely pedestrian university campus which , with its cafe , restaurant , shop , sport centre , cinema and theatre , offer all the advantage of a real town . 20 minute away from brussel , it be easy to reach by car , train and plane , brussel national airport be within very easy reach . deadline for abstract anyone wish to present a paper at the symposium should send a one page abstract in electronic format ( preferably a word attachment ) to sylviane granger ( address below ) by 16 october 1998 at the latest . notification of acceptance will be give by 6 november 1998 . payment the cost of the symposium be as follow : - before 30 november 1998 : 2500 belgian franc - after 30 november 1998 : 3500 belgian franc this include the symposium fee , the book of abstract , coffee break and lunch on both day . accommodation two type of accommodation be on offer : - chambre la rsidence universitaire ( le relai , rue de la gbe 6 , 1348 louvain - la - neuve ) : 1600 fb par nuit , petit djeuner inclus ; - chambre l ' htel de lauzelle ( avenue de lauzelle 61 , 1348 louvain - la - neuve ) : 2600 fb par nuit , petit djeuner inclus ( chambre simple ) . note : only thirty room be available at the university guesthouse and place will be allocate on a strictly first-come first-serve basis . scientific committee bengt altenberg ( university of lund , sweden ) ludo beheydt ( universit catholique de louvain , belgium ) hlne chuquet ( university of poitier , france ) jean - pierre colson ( institut libre marie - hap brussel & universit catholique de louvain , belgium ) thierry fontenelle ( european commission translation service , luxembourg ) sylviane granger ( universit catholique de louvain , belgium ) jacque lerot ( universit catholique de louvain , belgium ) raphal salkie ( university of brighton , uk ) organize committee sylviane granger ( universit catholique de louvain ) jacque lerot ( universit catholique de louvain ) andr hantson ( facult universitaire notre - dame de la paix namur ) michel kefer ( universit de lige ) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - pre-registration form please return to the follow address : professor sylviane granger , universit catholique de louvain , college erasme , place blaise pascal 1 , b-1348 louvain - la - neuve , belgium . telephone : + 32 10474947 ; ( secretary ) + -1084492356 fax : + 32 10474942 email : granger @ lige . ucl . ac . be - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - contrastive linguistics and translation studies empirical approaches universit catholique de louvain , louvain - la - neuve ( belgium ) 5 - 6 february 1999 surname : first name : institution : address : telephone : fax : e-mail : i wish to take part in the ' contrastive linguistic and translation study ' symposium which will take place in louvain - la - neuve , 5 - 6th february , 1999 . i wish to take part in the symposium without give a paper : yes / no i wish to give a paper / poster : yes / no provisional title of the paper / poster : i wish to demonstrate software at the symposium : yes / no provisional title of the demonstration : i wish to reserve accommodation : yes / no i would like to reserve a room in the university guesthouse , le relai , for 4th february / 5th february / 6th february / 7th february , make a total of . . . . . . night . i would like to reserve a room in the hotel de lauzelle for 4th february / 5th february / 6th february / 7th february , make a total of . . . . . . night . i would like to put my name down for the dinner on friday even ( c . 1000 fb ) : yes / no on receipt of your application , you will be send an itemize invoice .
