Subject: syllable structure and gesture time

call for papers : syllable stucture and gesture timing as part of the conference lp ' 98 to be hold at ohio state university sept . 15-20 , there will be a workshop fund by the national science foundation sept . 19-20 , on ' syllable structure and gesture time ' , cover issue relate to phonetic and phonological account of segmentation , and time and order of gesture in speech , especially how sequence of consonant e . g . [ spr ] , [ ntw ] be formally represent . speech be traditionally represent as a string of segment , define in term of feature which be implement simultaneously . in that conception , the phoneme be the minimal phonological unit where time and order be define . as have long be know , the transition from phoneme to phoneme be phonetically realize as a continuous change . there have be a steady progression in phonological theory from linear generative theory to nonlinear representation where the map between segment and feature be quite relax , and highly articulate suprasegmental structure be assume . a consequence of nonlinear model , which allow single 's egment ' to bear multiple value of a feature and allow one feature to be associate with many 's egment ' , be that one can meaningfully question the existence of the 's egment ' as a formal object . the theory of feature geometry do not explicitly represent the notion 's egment ' , and it have be argue that the traditional segment do not correspond to any specific level of representation in current model . nonlinear model have increasingly tend toward posit complex but internally timeless single 's egment ' in place of cluster of segment : thus , what be formerly represent as a triconsonantal sequence [ ntw ] may also be represent as a single segment , a ' voiceless prenasalise round alveolar ' . some language , such as bellum coolum and georgian , seem to allow unbound arbitrary sequence of consonant , which suggest that phonological theory may ultimately need to allow infinitely long syllable and unstructure onset and coda . one of the central question to be take up in the workshop be " be there any universal limit on possible string of segment in various position within the syllable " ? this statement of the question beg two quite important question : do segment per se exist ( and how can one identify whether a give temporal stretch of the phonetic output correspond to one or more segment ) , and do syllable themselve exist ? both of these assumption remain controversial , especially in nonlinear phonology . invite speaker for this workshop include donca steriade , john ohalum , john harri and loui goldstein . further detail on the issue be investigate in this workshop can be find at http : / / ling . ohio-state . edu / event / phon _ workshop . html . one - page abstract for 30 minute papers to be present at this workshop be solicit ( due date for receipt of abstract : august 10 ) . lodge and up to $ 400 to cover economy travel expense will be provide to author present papers at the workshop . abstract may be send by email to odden @ ling . ohio-state . edu , or by surface mail to : syllable workshop department of linguistic ohio state university columbus , oh 43210 please include a surface mail address , email address , and phone number .
