Subject: iceis 99 call for paper

iceis ' 99 - announcement and call for paper . 1st international conference on enterprise information system 27 - 30 march , 1999 . setubal , portugal scope the international conference on enterprise information system ( iceis ) aim at become a major point of contact between research scientist , engineer and practitioner on the area of business application of information system . four simultaneous track will be hold , cover all different aspect relate to enterprise compute , include database application , artificial intelligence application , decision support system , system analysis and specification , software engineer , methodology to address information and knowledge share issue and internet / intranet compute . iceis focus on real world application therefore author should highlight the benefit of information technology for industry and service . idea on how to solve business problem , use it , will arise from the conference . paper describe advance prototype , system , tool and technique and general survey papers indicate future direction be also encourage . paper describe original work be invite in any of the area list below . accept papers , present at the conference by one of the author , will be publish in the proceeding of iceis . acceptance will be base on quality , relevance and originality . there will be both oral and poster session . special session , dedicate to case-study and commercial presentation , as well as technical tutorial , dedicate to technical / scientific topic , be also envisage : company interest in present their product / methodology or researcher interest in lecture a tutorial be invite to contact the conference secretariat . topic areas / conference tracks area 1 . database technology and its application area 2 . artificial intelligence and decision support system area 3 . system analysis and specification area 4 . internet and intranet compute each of these coonference track be expand in the conference 's web page at : http : / / www . est . ip . pt / icei program committee agostinho rosa ist / technical university of lisboa ( pt ) alfred ultsch university of marburg ( de ) altamiro machado university of minho - polo de guimarae ( pt ) ana fred ist / technical university of lisboa ( pt ) antonio figueiredo university of coimbra ( pt ) bernadette sharp university of stafford ( uk ) carlo belo ist / technical university of lisboa ( pt ) carlo zorrinho university of evora ( pt ) colin theaker university of stafford ( uk ) edmundo madeira university of campina ( br ) edmundo monteiro university of coimbra ( pt ) ernesto costa university of coimbra ( pt ) fernando boavida university of coimbra ( pt ) fernando moura pire new university of lisboa ( pt ) gabriel pereira lope new university of lisboa ( pt ) helder coelho university of lisboa ( pt ) henrique madeira university of coimbra ( pt ) j . legatheaux martin new university of lisboa ( pt ) joao alvaro carvalho university of minho - polo de guimarae ( pt ) joao gabriel university of coimbra ( pt ) kecheng liu university of stafford ( uk ) manuelum veloso carnegie mellon university ( us ) mark s . fox university of toronto ( ca ) mattus linna vaasa institute of technology ( fi ) nuno mamede ist / technical university of lisboa ( pt ) patrice dehai university of gent ( be ) paulo ferreira ist / technical university of lisboa ( pt ) pedro veiga university of lisboa ( pt ) rita loogen university of marburg ( de ) ronald stamper university of twente ( nl ) slimone hammondus university of minho - polo de guimarae ( pt ) zahir tarus university of melbourne ( au ) therese libourel lirmm - montpellier ( fr ) thoma norgall university of erlangen ( de ) thoma penzel university of marburg ( de ) = 20 vasco freita university of minho - polo de braga ( pt ) invited speakers invite speaker , expert in their field , either from academia or from industry , belong to internationally recognise institution , will present key lecture at the open of each conference track . at the moment the presence of professor mark fox , professor ronald stamper and professor tom greene be already confirm . case-study sessions business consult company , hardware and software manufacturer and business company in general be invite to submit case study , regard their own information technology problem and solution . for this purpose , iceis will have a track of case-study session and company presentation session . the attendance to these session be free for all the conference participant . all case study should be submit by email to the iceis secretariat . a number of invite case-study session be already schedule . tutorials any person interest in organise a tutorial should contact the secretariat before november 1 , 1998 . proposal for half-day tutorial ( approx . 3 hour ) should include the topic and scope of the tutorial , the expect background knowledge of the participant , and a resume of the instructor ( s ) . exhibition the conference site will have an area for company stand , where a number of company will present themselve and their product . company interest in present their product , show documentation about them or demonstrate some application , be invite to contact the secretariat and make a reservation for a booth locate at the conference site . due to the limit number of stand available it be recommend to make early reservation . in addition , there be a 50 % discount in space price for reservation make before september 30 , 1998 . price and available space will be provide by the iceis secretariat . location the conference will be hold in setubal , a town 50 - km south of lisboa , the portuguese capital . setubal and its surroundings be a major touristic place , in portugal , where the visitor can find anything from ancient historical area , in palmelum , to pleasurable beach and modern golf course , in troium . submission of abstracts for more information about submission of abstract , please visit the conference 's web page : http : / / www . est . ip . pt / icei or contact de secretariat ( address below ) . best student paper award an award of us $ 1 , 0 ( one thousand us dollar ) will be give to the best paper present by a student ( graduate , m . sc or ph . d ) . the organise committee will decide , base on the feedback provide by the program committee . to qualify for the best student paper award , the student , beside be one of the author , must present the paper at the conference site . local arrangements inquiry concern hotel reservation and touristic aspect can be direct to the local touristic agent ( address below ) . the local specialise travel agency will make all arrangement . transportation facility be available from the lisboa international airport to the hotel in setubal , for all reservation make through this travel agency . local touristic program , for accompany attendant be also available through the agency . the conference site will be approximately 5 km away from the town centre , therefore free transportation between a number of hotel and the conference site will be provide by the conference organisation , during the conference day . coffee break and lunch meal will be provide at the conference site , for conference participant . local touristic agent name : expansao contact person : mr . francisco daniel tel : 351 65 528805 fax : 351 65 21684 e - mail : icei @ est . ip . pt important dates extend abstract submission : october 21 , 1998 . acceptance notification : december 15 , 1998 . early registration deadline : january 1 , 1999 . full paper camera-ready version : january 20 , 1999 . event date : march 27-30 , 1999 . sponsor by ibm - international business machine icep - investimento , comercio e turismo de portugal cgd - caixa geral de deposito autoeuropa rtca - regiao de turismo da costa azul esce / ips - escolum superior de ciencia empresariai / ips unesul - associacao universidade empresa do sul organisation secretariat this conference be organise by the school of technology of the polytechnic institute of setubal est / ips in collaboration with the portuguese association for informatic api any inquiry should be address to the secretariat below , preferably by email . iceis secretariat escolum superior de tecnologium / ips rua vale chaves - estefanilha , 2910 setubal portugal tel . : 351 65 79 0 0 fax : 351 65 721 869 email : icei @ est . ip . pt web site : http : / / www . est . ip . pt / icei
