Subject: journal of translation and textlinguistic

subject : journal longacre , robert e . , journal of translation and textlinguistics , vol . 10 1998 issn : 1055-4513 ; $ 7 . 95 summer institute of linguistic . nichola a . bailey " what 's wrong with my word order ? " ethel e . walli mark 's goal - orient plot structure julium irene dieterman participant reference in isthmus mixe narrative discourse c . john collin coherence in jame 1 : 19-27 subject : journal dr . pattiya jimreivat for the mks editorial board mon-khmer studies : a journal of southeast asian languages vol . 28 , pb ; issn : 0147-5207 , viius + 228 pp . , 1998 , $ 29 . 0 summer institute of linguistic . this volume be in memoriam of william a . smalley . article be : - tone and voice quality in modern northern vietnamese : instrumental case study , by nguyen van lous and jerold a . edmondson - kyansittha and the indic word in myanmar from mon , by nai pan hla - affix in katu of the lao p . d . r . , by nancy a . costello - an acoustic study of battambang khmer vowel , by ratree wayland - prepositional v . directional coverb in vietnamese , by sophana srichampa - some kbe - taus loan-word in mon - khmer language , by qin xiaohang - express comparison in the taus language , by lev n . morev - numeral classifier in sgaw karen , by suriya ratanakul - diachronic evolution of initial consonant in buyang , by li jingfang and zhou guoyan internet : academic . book @ sil . org available for review http : / / www . sil . org subject : linguistic walter a . cook , s . j . , author ; case grammar applied ; pb . isbn : 1-55671 - 38 - 1 ; xiius + 275 pp . , 1998 , $ 29 . 0 . summer institute of linguistic and the university of texa at arlington . dr . walter cook , s . j . , be one of the promoter of the georgetown university round table on language and linguistic and author of numerous publication in linguistics . in case grammar theory ( 1989 ) , the author describe the case grammar model of fillmore , chafe , anderson , gruber , jackendoff , and some tagmemicist as contrast model within case grammar theory . in the present volume , intend as a companion volume to the previous one , we find a methodology for case grammar , test in extend textual analysis include ernest hemingway 's the old man and the sea . because case grammar lend itself well to display the way syntactic feature be associate with semantic structure , the author be able to use case grammar as an unusually clear , simple guide for sentence analysis . internet : academic , book @ sil . org available for review http : / / www . sil . org karen ann daley , author ; vietnamese classifiers in narrative text . pb . isbn : 1-55671 - 17 - 6 ; xius + 214 pp . , 1998 , $ 29 . 0 summer institute of linguistic , and the university of texa at arlington . karen daley lead the reader into what be perhap the first discourse study of vietnamese classifier to date . after present a summary of classifier and their function in language of the world , she challenge the validity of regard vietnamese classifier as simply fit the prototypical pattern of phrase-level numeral classifier . in vietnamese several of the function attribute to classifier imply discourse relation , despite the prevail assumption that their use be associate with the syntactic relation of phrase . a coherent pattern of classifier use become evident when they be observe in the larger syntactic environment of discourse . daley use discourse measurement of overall frequency , referential distance , and referential persistence and compare them with four criterion from a study of classifier in white hmong . the result in the present study indicate that the basic function of classifier in vietnamese discourse be referential - - to mark salience . internet : academic . book @ sil . org available for review http : / / www . sil . org long yaohong and zheng guoqiao , author , translate from chinese by d . norman geary ; the dong language in guizhou province , china ; pb . isbn : 1-55671 - 41 - 8 ; xvus + 272 pp . , 1998 , $ 29 . 0 . summer institute of linguistic and the university of texa at arlington . the dong people be renown within china for their beautiful sing and their architectural prowess . their gift have grow and flourish in the valley and mountain of guizhou , hunan , and guangxus province of southwestern china . in relative obscurity before the establishment of the people 's republic of china , the 2 . 5 million dong people be fast gain an international reputation . the dong language be distinctive for its many tone . it be often refer to outside china as kbe and occupy a significant position in the kbe - taus family of the sino - tibetan phylum . long yaohong and zhong guoqiao be recognize authority on dong language research . mr . long be a native speaker of dong . he provide an introduction , touch on many aspect of dong history , culture , and language , and a discussion of the grammar . mr . zheng supplies section on phonology , lexicon , and orthography . the two author jointly present a chapter on dong dialect . the book as a whole represent the first comprehensive description of the dong language available in english . internet : academic . book @ sil . org available for review http : / / www . sil . org subject : weg ( pakistan ) joan l . g . baart , author ; the sounds and tones of kalam kohistani ; with wordlists and texts ; pb . isbn : 969-8023 - 3 - 8 ; 1997 , xvus + 128 pp . , $ 12 . 0 . summer institute of linguistic and national institute of pakistan study . this volume start a new series " study in language of northern pakistan , " publish jointly by the summer institute of linguistic and the national institute of pakistan study in islamabad . the series will include study of the phonology , grammar , lexicon , and oral literature of kalasha , shina , burushaskus , and other language of northern pakistan . kalam kohistanus ( in the literature also know as garwus or bashkarik ) belong to the dardic branch of indo - aryan . the current volume present a sketch of the sound system and tonal system of this language , base on recent fieldwork . it also make a wordlist and text datum available for further study . internet : academic . book @ sil . org available for review http : / / www . sil . org sincerely , grace fuqua academic publication summer institute of linguistic grace _ fuqua @ sil . org
