Subject: workshop on embody conversational character

call for participation the first workshop on embody conversational character with support of aaai cooperation of acm / sigchi granlibakken resort & conference center at lake tahoe tahoe city ( north shore ) californium , usa october 12-15 , 1998 recent advance in several core software technology have make possible a new type of human-computer interface : the conversational character . conversational character be autonomous , anthropomorphic , animate figure that have the ability to communicate through multiple modality , include speak language , facial expression , and gesture . unlike textual natural language interface , conversational character have the ability to perceive and produce the verbal and non-verbal signal that identify discourse structure and regulate the flow of information between interlocutor . such signal include intonational pattern , gesture , back-channel feedback signal , and turn-take protocol . these capability enable them to engage in complex interaction with human user vium natural speech rather than complex command language , menus or graphical manipulation . research on conversational character have emerge from a number of discipline , include , among other , artificial intelligence , computational linguistics , computer animation , computer vision , psychology , cognitive science , virtual reality , cscw , and hci . this diversity be naturally reflect in the broad range of active research area in conversational character interface . the primary goal of this workshop be to advance the state of conversational character research and development by identify novel approach to the topic and issue list below , and integrate them into a framework for embody , conversational human-computer interaction . a provisional program can be find at http : / / www . fxpal . com / wecc98 / . attendance attendance will be limit to 40 people . there will be space for a few attendee who do not submit papers . non - presenter wish to attend the workshop should submit a one page description of their current research interest and their relation to the workshop theme . research description should be email to prevost @ pal . xerox . com no later than september 14 , 1998 . the list of attendee will be finalize by september 18 . workshop organizer joseph w . sullivan , fx palo alto lab , usa ( sullivan @ pal . xerox . com ) justine cassell , mit medium laboratory , usa ( justine @ media . mit . edu ) workshop program committee committee co - chair : scott prevost , fx palo alto lab , usa ( prevost @ pal . xerox . com ) elizabeth churchill , fx palo alto lab , usa ( churchill @ pal . xerox . com ) committee member : elisabeth andr , dfki gmbh , germany ( elisabeth . andre @ dfkus . de ) gene ball , microsoft research , usa ( geneb @ microsoft . com ) phil cohen , oregon graduate institute , usa ( pcohen @ cse . ogus . edu ) barbara haye - roth , stanford univ . , usa ( hayes-roth @ c . stanford . edu ) kenjus mase , atr international , japan ( mase @ mic . atr . co . jp ) clifford nass , stanford university , usa ( nass @ leland . stanford . edu ) mark steedman , university of pennsylvanium , usa ( steedman @ ci . upenn . edu ) kri thorisson , lego a / s , denmark ( kris @ digus . lego . com ) demo chair : timothy bickmore , isii inc . , usa ( bickmore @ pal . xerox . com ) additional information for more information , please consult the workshop web page : www . fxpal . com / wecc98 /
