Subject: call for genetic program book proposal

call for book proposal for kluwer book sery on genetic program kluwer academic publisher announce the genetic programming book sery genetic program be a technique for automatically synthesize computer program to solve problem . the kluwer book series on genetic program will cover application of genetic program , theoretical foundation of genetic program , technique extension , and implementation issue . it be the first collection of monograph , edit collection , and advance text to cover this rapidly grow field . in order to publish material that be timely and reflect the state of the art , the series will focus on book of relatively narrow scope and moderate length and will feature a rapid publication schedule . the first book of the series , langdon 's genetic program and data structure : genetic program + data structure = automatic program ! have already be publish . topic may include , but be not limit to design , control , classification , system identification , datum mine , pattern recognition and image analysis , datum and image compression , evolvable machine language , evolvable hardware , and automatic program of multi-agent and distribute system . prospective author : if you have an idea for a book which would fit in this series , we would welcome the opportunity to review your proposal . should you wish to discuss any potential project further or receive specific information regard our book proposal requirement , please contact either john koza or scott delman . plea enclose a short biography with your proposal . john r . koza consult editor section on medical informatic department of medicine school of medicine medical school office build stanford university 94305-5479 usa e-mail : koza @ genetic-program . org phone : 650-941 - 222 fax : 650-941 - 9430 scott delman senior publish editor kluwer academic publisher 101 philip drive assinippus park norwell , ma 1126 phone : 781-871 - 6311 ext . 299 fax : 781-871 - 7507 email : sdelman @ wkap . com
