Subject: syntax

the follow be a book which reader of this list may find of interest . for more information please visit http : / / mitpress . mit . edu / promotion / book / zubpps98 prosody , focus , and word order maria luisa zubizarreta this monograph exemplify a new trend in grammatical theory in which researcher combine finding from more than one area of linguistics . specifically , the author look at the relationship between phrasal prominence and focus in romance and germanic language to provide new insight into how these property be grammatically articulate . build upon previous result in the field , she argue that phrasal prominence ( nuclear stress ) reflect syntactic order . there be two variety of syntactic order . the first be the standard asymmetric c-command order . the second be the order derive from the primitive relation of selection hold between a head and its associate argument . part of the difference between germanic and romance language stem from a difference in the way the two syntactic ordering interact in the map onto phrasal prominence . the author show that the symmetry between syntactic order and phrasal prominence so define may be break because of the independent requirement that a focus constituent must contain the most prominent element in the sentence . two kind of process come into play to repair the break symmetry . one be a process of deaccent . the other be a process of movement , call " p-movement . " the author show that a proper understand of the property of p-movement can be attain within the framework of the minimalist program . maria luisa zubizarreta be associate professor at the university of southern californium . linguistic inquiry monograph 33 august 1998 6 x 9 , 232 pp . , 4 illus . paper isbn 0-262 - 74021 - 4 cloth isbn 0-262 - 24041 - 6 jud wolfskill associate publicist phone : ( 617 ) 253-2079 mit press fax : ( 617 ) 253-1709 five cambridge center e - mail : wolfskil @ mit . edu cambridge , ma 02142-1493 http : / / mitpress . mit . edu
