Subject: conf : translate and the computer 20

aslib , the association for information management http : / / www . aslib . co . uk / conference / index . html support by : iti bcs eamt and iamt present : translate and the computer 20 - conference and exhibition thursday 12 - friday 13 november 1998 at one great george street , westminster , london , sw1 this will be the 20th translate and the computer conference and exhibition and to celebrate we invite past delegate to submit papers . at last year 's conference , which attract an international audience , a number of delegate make suggestion for the follow year 's event . the response to our call for papers be overwhelm . i hope you will find the programme have : - a greater number of contribution from actual user than ever before - a number of papers show new development / application from both developer and user - opportunity to network with other and to look at the latest product , include those talk about in the papers , in the exhibition area if you have any question , or want to find out how you can exhibit at this year 's excite conference , please contact me , nicole adamide , manager of pdg at aslib , on + 44 ( 0 ) 171 903 24 or email her nicole @ aslib . co . uk . key issues : evaluate mt system improve translation at the source - control author and author memory how to make mt more user - friendly machine translation trend in europe and japan how to organise a translation service to maximise efficiency relocate mt in education and train how company have customise current mt system and developer produce new product day one : 12th november 1998 09 . 0 registration 09 . 50 introduction by the chair - chri pyne ( international communication europe , germany ) 10 . 0 twenty year of translate and the computer - john hutchin ( eamt ) since the first of the t&c conference in 1978 the field of machine ( - aid ) translation have see many change : - from mainframe computer to personal computer and the internet - from a mainly academic research pursuit to a competitive commercial field - from discussion of ' future possibility ' to discussion of actual use - from a translation profession largely antagonistic to automation to one make cost-effective exploitation of computerise translation tool . this presentation will look at the major change and development in both research and commercial system in the last 20 year and consider what have be learn ( or forget ) . 10 . 25 evaluate mt system : test and research the feasibility of a task - diagnostic approach - michelle vannus ( us defense ) in the spirit of new direction in mt evaluation ( mte ) propose in hovy ( 1998 ) , this paper describe an approach take at the us department of defense which be appropriate to a particular information process ( ip ) environment , the need of which be determinant of the feature which characterise the methodology . the approach consist of : - select ip task for which the mt output be to be use - select specific feature to be handle by each system - compare the score for each system 11 . 0 coffee 11 . 30 organise a translation service to maximise efficiency and quality - ian jone ( supreme headquarter ally power europe ) what be the overall function of a translation service and how can it be organise to best effect ? - the objective - the task - the resource - the future this paper will examine various aspect of the above element and will also refer to the nato terminology standardisation programme . 11 . 55 post - edit service for mt user at the ec - dorothy senez ( european commission translation service ) machine translation be freely available , vium the internal electronic mail system , to all staff work in the european institution . the machine translation help desk supplies a number of back-up service to a grow population of user . this paper look specifically at the post-edit service ( per ) : - balance quality and speed - rapid post-edit for short live document and end user responsible for quality control - the way forward at the commission . 12 . 25 dimitrio theologitis - european commission 12 . 50 discussion 13 . 5 lunch with an opportunity to visit the exhibition and network 14 . 30 introduction to afternoon session by chair - professor ruslan mitkov , university of wolverhampton , uk 14 . 35 from testbench to workflow : relocate mt in education and train - professor dr klaus schubert ( fachhochschule flensburg , germany ) and professor tony hartley ( university of brighton , uk ) the arrival on the market place over the last three year of relatively high-quality , low-cost mt and tm will lead to a greater demand in skill and expertise that also take into account the user and the requirement of the organisation 's workflow . this paper will look at initiative of university of brighton and fachhochschule flensburg to give their student first-hand experience of evaluate a system in situ . this be achieve through : - the provision of an in-house mt service for interest end-user - the design of scenario for inter-site collaboration - the introduction of element of human - computer interaction . 15 . 0 some reflection about the pedagogy of mat - pascaline merten ( haute ecole de bruxelle - institut superieur de traducteur et interprete ( isti ) ) cat tool be of interest to both researcher and translator . they be be increasingly integrate in the education of future translator . this give rise to two issue : - in education of translator : be experience of these tool enough , or be it important to understand the underlie concept ? - computational linguistics be far from the empirical approach of the translator , and this do not facilitate the introduction of new tool this paper will look at how the integration of cat tool in the translation process be a good mean to conciliate the practice of the translator and the reflection of the computational linguist . 15 . 25 discussion 15 . 35 tea 16 . 0 improve translation at the source - dawn murphy ( multilingual technology ltd . , uk ) improvement in the quality and efficiency of translation can be effect at the time of author . this paper will examine : - the concept of control author and author memory and the support technology - the benefit that such technique provide for the author , the translator and the translation manager - the process involve in develop such technique within an organisation . 16 . 25 lcc - the language consult centre - language consult in cyber space - jeannette orsted ( danish association business language graduate ) lcc be a project support by the european commission . the project be a partnership between teleport sachsen - anhalt gmbh ( de ) , centre for language technology ( dk ) , erhvervssprogligt forbund ( the danish association of business language graduate , dk ) and gesellschaft fur technische kommunikation e . v . ( de ) . the objective of the project be to support small and medium size enterprise in optimise their production and management of multilingual information . the paper will concentrate on : - language strategy as an integral part of company policy - language technology as a tool for language strategy - an overview of the lcc project and its service 16 . 50 discussion 17 . 0 close of day one 17 . 15 20th anniversary reception in the great hall aslib reserve the right to make change to the programme without prior notice day two : 13th november 1998 09 . 15 registration 09 . 55 open remark by the chair - daniel grasmick ( sap , germany ) 10 . 0 horse for course - the key to mt become a commonplace technology be acceptance - steve mclaughlin ( lernout & hauspie ( gms ) , germany ) user perception of machine translation be the decisive issue , and mt must be see - not as a universal translation solution , but as one of several potential tool - not in isolation , but within the context of the user 's work process what do this mean for machine translation vendor ? - mt should not be offer in isolation - product must be scale to the user 's purse and environment - it must be easy to access and use mt - mt must be available when and where the user need it , whatever the application 10 . 25 kielikone mt take user - friendliness seriously - kaarina hyvonen ( kielikone ltd . , finland ) kielikone mt have produce a commercial mt product , trun , which be in use in several major finnish corporation . in this paper , we examine how trun have be adapt to meet the need of individual end-user through four special feature : - user-friendly interface - ability to preserve document format - facilitation of post-edit - document-specific translation lexicon 10 . 50 discussion 11 . 0 coffee 11 . 30 eptas - a client / server base translation support system - klemen waldhor ( ep electronic publish partner , germany ) eptas be a translation server system which allow the integration of different translation component and various support tool . it contain a sophisticate linguistic database system and use an advance html base unicode document format . the main advantage of this system be that it allow the simultaneous usage of different translation method , like tm and mt in parallel , which be control by a sophisticate process management system . this paper will examine the system and its translation tool that can be incorporate from other vendor too . 11 . 55 promt 98 - the current state - svetlana sokolova ( project mt ltd , russium ) promt 98 be the latest version of the mt software stylus . it be a family of different application with the same mt kernel inside . the interface solution be intend for different kind of end user : - promt internet kit - promt home - pocket promt - promt professional 12 . 20 multilingual language technology in automotive documentation workflow - joerg schuetz ( iai , germany ) multidoc be concern with the design and implementation of a new translation-centr approach to technical documentation in the field of automotive service and repair . the project be entirely gear by the need and requirement of the industrial user who be fully integrate in all stage of the project . among the user there be bmw , bertone , volvo , renault and roll - royce from the automotive side ; star and itr from the translation orientate side . the project be technically coordinate by volvo together with iai . 12 . 45 discussion 13 . 0 lunch with an opportunity to visit the exhibition and network 14 . 25 introduction by chair - tony hartley ( university of brighton , uk ) 14 . 30 machine translation trend in europe and japan - sophium ananiadou ( umist , uk ) this paper will examine the condition in each geographical area that have give rise to mt system and associate aid , in order to shed light on the functionality of system from japan and the extent these can respond to european requirement . the examination will be base on : - type of user profile - the role of mt provider - the use of translation aid , terminology management system , bilingual / multilingual translation memory , etc . 14 . 55 fully integrate machine translation - logo gmbh , germany the corporate world have be slow to accept mt because , in the past , mt system have act in apparent isolation . this will all change when mt become a component of an integrate suite of tool that address the whole process . this paper will look at the process and describe an offer which begin with : - a terminology management tool and a writer-friendly author tool - a translation memory component tightly couple with mt - a smart post-edit environment it will not be easy integrate such a suite of translation tool , but once in place , then rapid , good quality , lower cost translation will become a reality . 15 . 20 discussion 15 . 30 tea 16 . 0 toward a multus - language multus script web base reference & terminology system - olaf - michael stefanov ( unite nation , vienna ) the unite nation office in vienna ( unov ) have possibly the first database contain reference and terminology in multiple script and be accessible vium the internet . unov will use it to support work in all six official un language . this paper will look at the evolution of unov : attain consistency in terminology and reference vium a mainframe add arabic and chinese to the workload result in unov look for a customise replacement system , use window - nt as a platform control query / update vium application run in web browser 16 . 25 paper to be confirm 16 . 50 discussion 17 . 0 close of the conference fees two day : 395 ( member ) ; 485 ( non member ) one day : 245 ( member ) ; 285 ( non member ) academic institution : two day : 285 ; one day : 155 this include coffee / tea , buffet lunch , documentation and the conference proceeding . half day : 125 ( member ) ; 155 ( non member ) this include coffee / tea , buffet lunch and documentation . please note : conference proceeding be not include . member fee apply to aslib corporate member and member of aslib ttg , eamt , iamt , iti and bcs . accommodation hotelscene , in conjunction with aslib , have arrange special discount rate at select hotel for conference delegate . full detail will be send on receipt of your book form or you can contact kiran or amanda at hotelscence , 8 the broadway , barn , london , sw13 0br , fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 181 876 1313 or tel : + 44 ( 0 ) 181 876 260 , quote aslib tanslate and the computer 20 . cancellation in the event of cancellation , there will be a charge of 50 to cover administration cost . the full fee will be charge for non-attendance and for cancellation receive less than 10 work day prior to the start of the conference . aslib will accept substitute for confirm delegate , provide we receive notification of the substitute two work day before the conference . proceedings additional copy of the proceeding for this event can be order for 32 . 50 from portland press by fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 1206 799 331 . further details from : nicole adamides , aslib , the association for information management , staple hall , stone house court , london , ec3a 7pb tel : + 44 ( 0 ) 171 903 24 fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 171 903 9 email : nicole @ aslib . co . uk www : www . aslib . co . uk nicole adamide , manager , professional development group aslib , the association for information management , staple hall , stone house court , london , ec3a 7pb tel : + 44 ( 0 ) 171 903 24 fax : + 44 ( 0 ) 171 903 9 www : http : / / www . aslib . co . uk /
