Subject: workshop visual representation & interpretation

the vri ' 98 workshop - september 22nd - 24th . foresight centre , university of liverpool , uk advance notice and call for participation we warmly extend an invitation to colleague to participate in vri ' 98 , an international workshop on visual representation & interpretation be hold at the foresight centre , university of liverpool from tuesday september 22nd to thursday september 24th . the main aim of the workshop be to promote inter-disciplinary awareness across a range of discipline where visual representation and interpretation be exploit . contribution be invite from researcher in any discipline who be actively investigate visual representation and interpretation , include though not limit to : - artist , architect , biologist , chemist , clinician , cognitive scientist , computer scientist , educationalist , graphic designer , linguist , mathematician , philosopher , physicist , psychologist and social scientist . we be please to report that all these discipline be represent in the papers choose for presentation at the workshop . we have also have interest submission which have be accept from researcher in film and medium study , philosophy of science , molecular and cellular science , theatre study , art and textile design , engineer and other design discipline . this excellent response means that the conference will be a truly multi-disciplinary event . duration of workshop the considerable interest that have be express in the workshop have also lead us to extend its duration . the workshop will now run from tuesday 22nd september until lunch-time on thursday 24th september . in order to give a potential participant some idea of the programme , session title include : - just visualise visualise the information retrieval process visualisation for effective communication technology , change and visualisation the language of symbol visual representation : from molecule to cell articulate the design process visualise the abstract language and form across domain the detail programme for the conference be publish on the vri ' 98 www site : - http : / / www . csc . liv . ac . uk / ~ ien / vri / programme detail at : - http : / / www . csc . liv . ac . uk / ~ ien / vri / programme . html registration and booking details registration detail and a downloadable book form be available from : - http : / / www . csc . liv . ac . uk / ~ ien / vri / call _ papers . html # registration this form together with with a cheque for 75 uk pound or a request for an invoice ( see form for detail ) should be send to beth jame , connect , foresight centre , 3 brownlow street , liverpool , l69 3gl . beth will be deal with the registration for the conference . all query in respect of registration should be make , ideally by email , to beth at beth @ csc . liv . ac . uk visit to tate gallery ( liverpool ) after the end of the workshop , on the afternoon of the 24th september , the teat gallery , liverpool have very kindly invite vri ' 98 participant to a guide tour of the willie doherty exhibition " somewhere else " , show as part of revolution98 ( the 9th international symposium on electronic art , 2nd september-11 th october ) . number be restrict so those interest in participate in this tour be request to email vri98 @ csc . liv . ac . uk express interest in this tour as soon as possible . preference for place will be give to oversea visitor . acknowledgement vri ' 98 be co-sponsor by connect , department of computer science , the university of liverpool , unilever research and barclay 's bank . visual representation & interpretation foresight centre c / o dr irene neilson , 3 brownlow street liverpool l69 3gl http : / / www . csc . liv . ac . uk / ~ ien / vri /
