Subject: kbcs-98 2nd call for paper

k b c s-98 2nd call for paper international conference on knowledge based computer systems national centre for software technology mumbaus , indium december 17-18 , 1998 the deadline for submission of papers has now been extended to august 30 , 1998 the international conference on knowledge base computer system will be hold in mumbaus , indium during december 17-18 , 1998 . the conference be intend to act as a forum for promote interaction among researcher in the field of artificial intelligence in indium and abroad . there will be a one and a half day conference during december 17-18 , 1998 follow by a half day of post-conference tutorial on december 18 , 1998 . paper be invite on substantial , original and unpublish research on all aspect of artificial intelligence , include , but not limit to the follow : o ai application o ai architecture o automatic program o cognitive modele o expert system o foundation of ai o genetic algorithm o information retrieval o intelligent agent o intelligent tutor system o knowledge acquisition o knowledge management o knowledge representation o machine learn o machine translation o natural language process o neural network o plan and schedule o reason o robotic o search technique o speech process o theorem prove o uncertainty handle o vision programme committee k . s . r . anjaneyulu , ncst , mumbaus s . arunkumar , iit , mumbaus amitava bagchus , iim , calcutta pushpak bhattacharya , iit , mumbaus nick cercone , u of regina , canada b . b . chaudhurus , isi , calcutta r . chandrasekar , u of pennsylvanium , usa s . k . goyal , gte lab , usa s . sen gupta , tata infotech , mumbaus j . r . isaac , niit , new delhus aravind k . joshus , u of pennsylvanium , usa h . n . mahabalum , infosys , bangalore m . narasimha murthy , iisc , bangalore r . narasimhan , cmc , bangalore s . ramanus , ncst , mumbaus ( chair ) p . v . s . rao , tifr , mumbaus p . saint - dizier , u of paul sabatier , france r . sangal , iit , kanpur r . uthurusamy , gmr lab , usa ( co - chair ) m . vidyasagar , cair , bangalore * * to be confirm organize committee george arakal , ncst ( chair ) dhawal bhagwat , ncst s . karthik , ncst parag a . mahadane , ncst mandar padhye , ncst p . ravus prakash , ncst durgesh d . rao , ncst m . sasikumar , ncst puneet srivastava , ncst format of submission author should submit their papers , not to exceed 5000 word ( include figure and reference ) either electronically or in hard copy . paper should be in english . paper should include an abstract of about 100-200 word in length . paper outside the specify length be subject to rejection without review . since review will be " blind " , the author ' name and affiliation along with the main area of the paper should be give only on a separate cover sheet . those submit by hard copy should send four copy of the paper . paper in electronic form can be in any of the follow format : plain text , postscript , pdf , latex , microsoft word ( rtf format ) or wordstar . submission in electronic form be prefer . paper will be select for presentation in the conference , base on international referee . proceeding of the conference consist of papers select for presentation , will be publish by ncst and will be available internationally . abstract of present papers will be available on the web . a few select papers will be publish in a special issue of vivek . call for tutorial proposal be invite for post-conference tutorial . tutorial will be half-day and will be hold on december 18th , 1998 . the proposal should be present in the form of a 200 - word abstract , one page topical outline of the content , description of the proposer and their qualification relate to the tutorial content . send papers and tutorial proposal to the kbcs-98 secretariat . submission deadline paper : o due : august 30 , 1998 o acceptance notification : october 10 , 1998 o camera ready copy due : november 15 , 1998 tutorial proposal : o due : august 30 , 1998 o acceptance notification : september 15 , 1998 o material due : november 25 , 1998 registration fee : conference : student : rs 600 delegate from not-for - profit organisation : rs 800 other delegate : rs 1200 tutorial : half day : rs 400 all payment should be make by a cross cheque or draft , payable to national centre for software technology . for further information please refer to the kbcs-98 home page or write to the kbcs-98 secretariat . address kbcs-98 secretariat national centre for software technology gulmohar cross rd no . 9 juhu , mumbaus 400 049 , indium url : http : / / konark . ncst . ernet . in / ~ kbc / kbcs98 / phone : + 91 ( 22 ) 620 1606 fax : + 91 ( 22 ) 621 0139 e - mail : kbc @ konark . ncst . ernet . in
