Subject: book : nlp : using prolog

an introduction to natural language processing through prolog clive matthews lecturer in linguistic at the university of east anglium . paper 0-582 - 3474 - 0 320 page july 1998 learn about language sery longman - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - research into natural language process - the use of computer to process language - have develop over the last couple of decade into one of the most vigorous and interest area of current work on language and communication . this book introduce the subject through the discussion and development of various computer program which illustrate some of the basic concept and technique in the field . the program language use be prolog , which be especially well-suit for natural language process and those with little or no background in compute . follow the general introduction , the first section of the book present prolog , and the follow chapter illustrate how various natural language process program may be write use this program language . since it be assume that the reader have no previous experience in program , great care be take to provide a simple yet comprehensive introduction to prolog . due to the ' user friendly ' nature of prolog , simple yet effective program may be write from an early stage . the reader be gradually introduce to various technique for syntactic process , rang from finite state network recognisor to chart parser . an integral element of the book be the comprehensive set of exercise include in each chapter as a means of cement the reader 's understand of each topic . suggest answer be also provide . an introduction to natural language process through prolog be an excellent introduction to the subject for student of linguistics and computer science , and will be especially useful for those with no background in the subject . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - further information on the book publish in this series , and the table of contents for this title can be view at the longman linguistic on-line catalogue at : http : / / www . awl-he . com / linguistics for a complete list of our world-wide office , please click below : http : / / www . awl-he . com / office
