Subject: twlt 14 : twente workshop on language technology

14th twente workshop on language technology language technology in multimedia information retrieval december 7 - 8 1998 , university of twente , the netherland first announcement on 7 and 8 december 1998 , the fourteenth international twente workshop on language technology ( twlt14 ) will take place at the university of twente , enschede , the netherland . the topic of this workshop will be " language technology in multimedium information retrieval " twlt14 will focus on the increasingly important role of human language technology in the index and access of write and speak document , video material and / or image , and on the role of language technology for cross-language retrieval and information extraction . the workshop will address the role of language and speech process both in term of exist approach and implementation , in term of theoretical foundation , and / or emerge direction of research . some 15-19 presentation by people with various background will be schedule . proceeding will be available at the workshop . among the invite speaker be : - karen sparck jone ( cambridge , uk ) - han uszkoreit ( dfki , germany ) - david hull ( xerox , grenoble , france ) - doug appelt ( sri interational , usa ) - arnold smeulder ( amsterdam , nl ) twlt14 be organise in cooperation with the parlevink - project of the university of twente by : klaus netter - dfki , germany email : netter @ dfkus . de franciska de jong - university of twente , computer science department , email : fdejong @ c . utwente . nl djoerd hiemstra - university of twente , computer science department , email : hiemstra @ c . utwente . nl a full programme will be available in september and will be announce on : http : / / wwwsetus . c . utwente . nl / parlevink / conference / twlt14 . html for further information please contact the organiser , preferably by email , or otherwise vium the workshop secretariat : department of computer science / parlevink university of twente phone : + 31 53 893680 p . o . box 217 , fax : + 31 53 315283 7500 ae enschede the netherland
