Subject: new book : atomism and bind

atomism and bind edite by han benni , pierre pica and johan rooryck the state of the art in bind : everything on reference , coreference , nonreference and disjoint reference , and more on boundedness and freedom . the sixteen papers in this new volume provide a representative overview of the broad range of issue relevant to the study of bind phenomenon in the generative framework . since the inception of the theoretical interest in co-referential relation in generative grammar , there have be a debate with respect to the question as to whether and how ( co ) - reference should be represent in the grammar . notion such as " ( co ) - indexation " , " disjoint reference " , " free " and " bind " play an important role in this discussion . their relevance be explicitly analyze in many article of this volume . the role of thematic information in bind theory constitute another important line of inquiry elaborate on in this book . various contributor to this volume argue that thematic information largely influence bind phenomenon , although the specific proposal express this relation differ quite substantially . another issue pursue here be relate to the discussion whether bind theory be a component of sentence grammar . many papers address this issue quite explicitly and delineate the respective role of sentence and discourse grammar in novel and intrigue way . the volume contain the follow contribution : stephen berman & arild hestvik : " split antecedent , noncoreference and drt " ; george aaron broadwell : " bind theory and switch-reference " ; hamida demirdache : " condition c " ; robert fiengo & robert may : " the semantic significance of syntactic identity " ; zygmunt frajzyngier : " pronoun and agreement : system interaction in the code of reference " ; robert freidin : " bind theory on minimalist assumption " ; jeff gruber : " a configurational approach to thematic bind " ; jame higginbotham : " a plea for implicit anaphor " ; hajime hojus : " sloppy identity and principle b " ; jan koster : " anaphora and the uniformity of grammar " ; howard lasnik : " level of representation and the element of anaphora " ; seth minkoff : " on the syntax of local and logophoric control " ; gertjan postma : " logical entailment and the possessive nature of reflexive pronoun " ; eric reuland & sigridur sigurjonsdottir : " long distance ' bind ' in icelandic : syntax or discourse ? " ; ken safir : " symmetry and unity in the theory of anaphora " ; christopher tancredus : " pronoun and perspective " . and a very informative introduction by the editor . xx + 412 pp . isbn 90 6765 535 x . paperback . price : nlg 61 , 32 ( excl . vat and p&p ) holland academic graphic , the hague < http : / / www . hag . nl > rint sybesma holland academic graphic po box 53292 2505 ag the hague the netherland fax : + 31 70 448 127
