Subject: 13th paclic

the 13th pacific asium conference on language , information and computation february 10-12 , 1999 the grand hotel , taipeus , taiwan , r . o . c . second call for papers the department of computer science and information engineer , national cheng kung university , be please to announce that the 13th pacific asium conference on language , information and computation ( paclic 13 ) will be hold in the grand hotel , taipeus , taiwan , r . o . c . , on february 10-12 , 1999 . scope : the conference be an annual meet of scholar with a wide range of interest in theoretical and computational linguistics . paper be invite on substantial , original , and unpublish research on all aspect of theoretical and computational linguistics , include , but not limit to the follow . 1 . syntax 2 . corpus linguistics 3 . phonology 4 . natural language process 5 . pragmatic 6 . semantic 7 . computer application 8 . discourse and dialogue analysis 9 . morphology 10 . formal grammar theory paper submission : four hard-copy of a preliminary version of a full paper ( maximum 25 letter - or a4 - size page , double space throughout ) should be send to the follow address . the first page of the submit paper should bear the follow information : the title of the paper , the name ( s ) of the author ( s ) , affiliation , mail address , and email address for correspondence . chang - hsien wu department of computer science and information engineer , national cheng kung university tainan , taiwan , r . o . c . email : chwu @ server2 . iie . ncku . edu . tw fax : 886 - 6-2746867 important date : preliminary paper submission due : october 10 , 1998 notification of acceptance : november 25 , 1998 camera - ready copy due : january 5 , 1999 conference chairs chairman jhing - fa wang national cheng kung university , taiwan email : wangjf @ server2 . iie . ncku . edu . tw co - chairman kim teng lua national university of singapore benjamin k . t 's ou city university of hong kong young - hern lee korean society for language and information , korea akira ikeya tokyo gakuen university , japan lin - shan lee academium sinica , taiwan program chairs chairman chang - hsien wu national cheng kung university , taiwan co - chairman jen - tzung chien national cheng kung university , taiwan program committee ozekus kakazuhiko , japan matsumoto yujus , japan kawamorus masahito , japan kanazawa makoto , japan igarashus yoshiyukus , japan suk - jin chang , korea jaewoong choe , korea chungmin lee , korea ik - hwan lee , korea byung - soo park , korea lai bong yeung tom , hong kong samuel w . k . chan , hong kong jin guo , singapore jie xu , singapore haus zhou li , singapore one - soon her , taiwan zhao - ming gao , taiwan hsue - hueh hsu , taiwan charce c . lee , taiwan chu - ren huang , taiwan http : / / www . csie . ncku . edu . tw / paclic13
