Subject: chamito - semitic conference

announce the 1999 conference on the morpho - syntax of chamito - semitic language to be hold at the university of fez , morocco , march 15-17 , 1999 . deadline for receipt of abstract : november 30 , 1998 all submission must comprise : i ) three copy of the abstract and ius ) one card with full name , affiliation , title of the paper , address , fax number and e-mail . the paper abstract must be at most 2 - page long ( include example and reference ) . paper will be present in english , french and arabic . author whose abstract be accept will be notify in mid - january 1999 . the abstract may be send by surface mail , fax or e-mail to : professor moha ennajus for the generative grammar reseach group ( gergg ) sidi moahmed ben abdellah university faculty of letter , department of english bp 50 fs 30 0 morocco tel : + 212 5 61 09 10 fax : + 212 5 64 08 44 e - mail : ennajus < estry @ fesnet . net . ma > there will be 18 talk in all , each 40 minute long with an additional 15 minute for discussion . the university can pay for board and lodge during the conference , but cannot afford to pay for transportation . participant be request to make their travel arrangement early . as a follow up to this conference , a three-day spring institute will be organize on march 18-20 , 1999 for the benefit of graduate student and researcher . this mini-institute will feature lecture and seminar on minimalist theory and the morphology and syntax of chamito-semitic language . invite lead scholar in the field will teach a few course . conference topics and aims the major suggest topic to be discuss during the conference be : - morphology : inflection and derivation paradigm - word order variation - syntactic variation - syntax and semantics - diachronic study - comparative study - chamito-semitic language and universal grammar - minimalist approach to chamito-semitic language - the acquisition of morphosyntax chamito - semitic language have generally be associate with descriptive and diachronic linguistics . they have be describe and analyze at the phonological , morphosyntactic and semantic level by functional , structural and generative school of linguistics . today most chamito - semitic study be inspire by the generative trend . however , in the light of the new development in the minimalist theory , chamito - semitic language have be overlook . the aim of this conference be to discuss new research in the syntax of chamito - semitic language within the framework of the latest approach in generative syntax . the ultimate goal be to establish the parameter of these language and bring change and improvement to the minimalist theory on the basis of empirical datum . new datum and comparative study be encourage in order to strengthen or disconfirm the principle of minimalism and ug . this conference will focus on similarity and difference between the various chamito - semitic language , use the minimalist theoretical framework and empirical knowledge . comparison between dialect and language that be genetically relate will be make to check parametrization in ug , on the one hand , and to analyze the syntax of these language on formal grounds . the major aim of this conference , then , be to shed light on the progress make in chamito - semitic morphology and syntax , as well as focus on the datum and theoretical perspective . contribution from relate subject like semantics , language variation and language acquisition will be welcome . hypothese and prediction will be postulate and test accord to different principle and parameter determine by ug . for further contact , please e-mail : ennajus < estry @ fesnet . net . ma >
