Subject: universal grammar , ling anthropology

lang acquisition ( universal grammar ) investigation in universal grammar : a guide to experiment on the acquisition of syntax and semantic stephen crain and rosalind thornton this introductory guide to language acquisition research be present within the framework of universal grammar , a theory of the human faculty for language . the author focus on two experimental technique for assess child 's linguistic competence : the elicit production task , a production task , and the truth value judgment task , a comprehension task . their methodology be design to overcome the numerous obstacle to empirical investigation of child 's language competence . they produce research result that be more reproducible and less likely to be dismiss as an artifact of improper experimental procedure . in the first section of the book , the author examine the fundamental assumption that guide research in this area ; they present both a theory of linguistic competence and a model of language process . in the follow two section , they discuss in detail their two experimental technique . stephen crain be professor of linguistic and rosalind thornton be assistant professor of linguistic , both at the university of maryland at college park . language , speech , and communication series a bradford book may 1998 $ 55 . 0 cloth 7 x 10 , 368 pp . , 46 illus . isbn 0-262 - 1704 - 3 for more information please visit http : / / mitpress . mit . edu / promotion / book / craihs98 linguistic anthropology linguistic anthropology alessandro durantus ( u . of californium , lo angele ) isbn : 0-521 - 44536 - 1 ; hardback , 6 x 9 , 420 pp . ; pub . deat : 8 / 30 / 97 ; publisher : cambridge university press ; $ 64 . 95 ; alessandro durantus introduce linguistic anthropology as an interdisciplinary field that study language as a cultural resource and speak as a cultural practice . the theory and method of linguistic anthropology be introduce through a discussion of linguistic diversity , grammar in use , the role of speak in social interaction , the organization and mean of conversational structure , and the notion of participation as a unit of analysis . linguistic anthropology will appeal to undergraduate and graduate student . content : 1 . the scope of linguistic anthropology ; 2 . theory of culture ; 3 . linguistic diversity ; 4 . ethnographic method ; 5 . transcription : from write to digitize image ; 6 . mean in linguistic form ; 7 . speak as social action ; 8 . conversational ex ! change ; 9 . unit of participation ; 10 . conclusion ; appendix : practical tip on record interaction ; reference ; index order info : www . cup . org / order . html
