Subject: book : pidgin & creole , oceanic ling

pidgins and creoles muehlhausler , peter , ed . paper in pidgin and creole linguistic no . 5 1998 , isbn 0 85883 474 x , v + 213pp . softcover . ( in press ) a $ 41 . 40 pacific linguistic catalogue number , a-91 . key word : pidgin and creole ; lexicology ; pitcairn ; bislama ; western australium . this volume bring together lexicographic and sociolinguistic description of some of the less well-document pidgin , creole and contact language of the pacific region , add many important detail to current knowledge . for more information , contact : pacific linguistic http : / / coomb . anu . edu . au / dept / rspas / ling / pl / pageone . html oceanic ling tent , jan and france mugler , sicol proceeding of the second international conference on oceanic linguistic : vol . 1 , language contact 1998 , isbn 0 85883 448 x , ix + 146pp . softcover . a $ 36 . 25 pacific linguistic catalogue number , c-141 . key word : language contact ; creole ; pidgin . this volume contain most of the papers present at the second international conference on oceanic linguistic session on language contact . the papers range far afield , but the bulk be about the pacific and in particular melanesium , the part of the region with the greatest linguistic diversity and a rich history of language contact . the topic relate to : fijus hindus ( david arm ) , the tayo language of new caledonium ( chri core ) , belizean creole ( genevieve escure ) , singapore colloquial english ( anthea fraser gupta ) , french antillean creole ( william jenning ) , melanesian pidgin and creole ( ernest w . lee ) , bislama ( miriam meyerhoff ) , south indian language in fijus ( france mugler ) , language use and attitude in fijus ( france mugler and jan tent ) , and the language of adolescent first language tok pisin speaker ( geoff p . smith ) . for more information , contact : pacific linguistic http : / / coomb . anu . edu . au / dept / rspas / ling / pl / pageone . html
