Subject: available for review : phonology

the three book list below be in the linguist office and now available for review . if you be interest in review a book ( or lead a discussion of the book ) ; please contact our book review editor , andrew carnie , at : carnie @ linguistlist . org note : please include in your request message a brief statement about your research interest , background , affiliation and other information that may be valuable to help us select a suitable reviewer . do not provide a link or url to an online cv or homepage - - these will be ignore . please also provide a surface address for us to send the book to . phonology : jame m . scobbie ; autosegmental representation in a declarative constraint - base framework 0-8153 - 1949 - 0 , cloth ; 280 page , $ 61 ; garland publish ; outstand dissertation in linguistic the book examine the formal characterization of multiple association from the perspective of a declarative constraint-base phonological framework . both the autosegmental and constraint-base aspect of the book be highly relevant to recent development in phonological theory , predate the current interest in constraint interaction and optimization . inspire by the empirical and formal success of unification - base grammar , all phonological rule and representation be interpret as hard constraint on well-formedness . in general then , constraint be simply conjoin , and faithfulness to the lexical entry be obligatory . alternation arise from underspecification . the multiple sequence tier of autosegmental phonology be show to be redundant , and linear order be limit to the root tier . association be then define as the inverse of dominance within the feature geometry , so multiple association be co-dominance of a feature by two root . the no cross constraint be not applicable since non-root feature be not on sequence tier , and the share constraint be introduce instead as the key means of force locality on co-dominance : it ban co-dominance by non - adjacent root . thus , because feature and association line be indestructible , the key autosegmental property of integrity and inalterability be predict to occur . long distance dependency be then consider . from the perspective of structural integrity , discontinuous geminate in planar morphology be more like fake geminate than true geminate , which be predict by the share constraint . only a tiny amount of nontonal datum can be present in favor of non-local multiple association which feed phonological rule : chaha display non-local inalterability and javanese , the opposite ( side-effect ) . thus the balance of evidence be against a single mechanism unit local and non-local multiple association . phonology daniel silverman ; phase and recoverability ; 0-8153 - 2876 - 1 , cloth ; 256 page , $ 56 ; garland publish ; outstand dissertation in linguistic this phonological study investigate the articulatory time ( " phase " ) relationship that render acoustic cue optimally recoverable by the listener , and the strong tendency for language to allow sub-optimal time pattern only if they allow optimal one . the primary area of focus be the otomanguean language group of oaxaca , mexico and neighbor state , which possess " laryngeally complex " vowel , a typologically unusual pattern in which tone and non-modal phonatory setting ( breathiness , creakiness ) cross-classify . the laryngeally complex vowel of jalapa mazatec , comaltepec , chinantec , and copalum trique be study in depth . also explore be the phase relation between obstruent and laryngeal , and sonorant and laryngeal , include phonological analysis from such diverse group as mon - khmer , tibeto - burman , and nilotic , among other . throughout the investigation , finding from a number of relevant discipline aerodynamics , acoustic , audition be apply to the sound pattern in an effort not only to describe them in phonetic detail , but also to explain their phonological and typological behavior . ( ph . d . dissertation , university of californium - lo angele , 1995 ; revise with new bibliography and index ) phonology burquest , donald a . , author ; phonological analysis : a functional approach ; pb ; isbn : 1-55671 - 55 - 4 ; x + 314 pp . , 1998 , 2nd ed . , $ 29 . 0 . summer institute of linguistic . human language be a remarkable phenomenon . it study continue to be a source of fascination and delight . dr . donald burquest , professor of linguistics at the university of texa at arlington , develop this foundational textbook during year of help student overcome the feeling of dismay that new phonology student experience when confront by a mass of raw phonetic datum . while work through the material , the student be lead through the step of organize datum and be introduce to particular theory for later in-depth specialization . the author expand on the previous edition of this text by add introduction to autosegmental phonology and metrical phonology . he have also include a series of problem at the end of most chapter that provide an opportunity for the student to apply the information in that chapter . this textbook be intend for use in an upper division introductory course in phonology , prepare the student to further study aspect of current theory .
