Subject: glow ' 99

call for papers : glow 1999 the glow 99 colloquium will be organize by the research center for general linguistic ( zas ) in berlin from 29th to 31st march 1999 . the conference will then continue in potsdam on 1st april with parallel workshop organize by the potsdam university and lot ( netherland graduate school of linguistic ) . theme of the conference main colloquium : universal workshop : phonetic in phonology source for universal technical aspect of movement calls : the colloquium : universals the search for universal have alway be at the center of interest in generative linguistics . fundamental claim about universal property of language be what we build into the very architecture of the theory of ug : primitive ( feature etc . ) , combinatorial operation ( merge ) , the operation ' move ' , interface with extralinguistic system ( lf , pf ) , etc . alongside such formal universal , we also seek substantive universal in inventory , markedness pattern , feature hierarchy etc . such fact may reflect property of ug itself or derive from extralinguistic source . recent growth in crosslinguistic study open new opportunity for extend the empirical base , confirm or challenge old generalization and establish new one . at the same time , recent theoretical development in both phonology and syntax lead to important question concern the formal and / or substantive nature of universal in language , and the quest for the exact source of variation between language . in phonology , universal have typically be assume to exist in many different subcomponent , e . g . feature , prosodic constituent . only in recent year , with the emergence of output-base evaluation system , have the focus of interest in universal shift to the study of constraint and their interaction . hence new question arise : be all constraint universal in the sense that they be constitutive of grammar ? should we conceive of constraint as be exhaustive and order ? are there universal that constraint ordering have to obey ? are there different domain ( i . e . lexical and postlexical level ) where constraint apply ? are there language-specific constraint ? syntactic theory in the early 80 's assume principle common to all language to interact with various type of ' macro-parameter ' : one deep property from which several other property derive ( e . g . pro-drop parameter ) . later , variation be attribute to ' micro-parameter ' . now , with the emergence of minimalism and optimality , basic issue like what constitute a universal principle / constraint , and what constitute a parameter , need to be re-address . is there a universal inventory of functional head / feature ? as to the autonomy of , or the division of labour between syntax and morphology : be parametrize variation confine to inflectional system ? is syntactic variation restrict to the choice of overt or zero realization of a give feature ? if all movement take place in a single cycle , do variation reduce to the presence of affix or the lack thereof ? are there universal constraint in morpho-syntax ? moreover , in recent year it have be argue that thematic relation be feature . what be their characteristic ? do these have a universal inventory ? could they be parametrize ? many typological-descriptive generalization await theoretical integration - e . g . greenbergian ' universal ' of word order pattern , cross-categorial harmony effect , etc . in this respect , kayne 's proposal for a universal order merely shift the burden from phrase structure to movement . a guide heuristic of generative grammar have be that parsimonious ( redundancy-free ) theory be to be prefer ; but minimalism go further in suggest that economy be build into ug itself . to what extent can the hypothesis that ug principle instantiate notion of economy be uphold ? in study ug , we take the external system with which it interface to be invariant in linguistically significant senses across individual and language . thus we posit universal interpretation mechanism ( and uniformity across language at lf ) , ' universal phonetics ' ( invariant articulatory / perceptual mechanism ) , a universal parser , etc . ; so that variation be confine to grammar , in particular phonology / morphology and&nbsp ; aspect of the lexicon . yet property of external system may have far-reach consequence for our view of ug . as we learn more about them , universal attribute to ug may have to be reassign . what if ug - compatible grammar determine language that cannot exist because they be unuseable ( unparseable ; unlearnable ; etc ) ? are there universal pattern in the acquisition process , in parse strategy , etc . , that can be bring to bear ? the colloquium will consist of 20 talk of 45 minute each plus discussion . abstract may not exceed 2 page with at least a 1 inch margin on all four side and should employ a font not smaller than 12 pt . they should be send anonymously in tenfold , accompany by a camera-ready original with the author 's name , address and affiliation to : glow selection committee c / o artemi alexiadou zentrum fr allgemeine sprachwissenschaft , typologie und universalienforschung jgerstr . 10 / 11 , 10117 berlin germany phone : + 49-30 - 20192404 / 1 fax : + 49-30 - 20192402 e-mail : glow99 @ za . gwz-berlin . de url : http : / / www . za . gwz-berlin . de / event / glow / index . htm the workshops 1 . sources for universals recent development in syntax and phonology such as the minimalist program or optimality theory have lead to new insight into the structure of the human linguistic capacity . in the context of such theoretical development , the conviction have grow that recourse to innate property of language cannot be the only explanation for the existence of certain generalization of formal linguistic structure . the idea of the workshop " source for universal " be to bring together researcher from various field inside and outside of syntax and phonology in order to identify possible source for formal universal of natural language . such possible source could come from the follow domain , semantic universal consideration of process difficulty consideration of law of historical development for language considersation of constraint on language acquisition biological constraint in the sense of a " universal grammar " constraint inherent in the computational mechanism serve language , this list be not mean to be exhaustive . contribution which link formal universal as discuss in recent grammatical model to any of such source be particularly welcome . 2 . technical aspects of movement filler - gap dependency ( fgd ) belong to the most intrigue property of natural language grammatical theory have to deal with . find the right approach continue to be a matter of no little controversy . capture the core property of fgds , concept of strictest c-command , which require filler and their gap to be immediately attach to the same projection line , arguably possess a high amount of naturalness or simplicity . this type of constraint be directly reflect by linear index grammar and have be implement in the minimalist extension condition on structure build . ( attempt to derive the c-command relation from the minimalist operation merge take this strategy even further . ) yet , head-movement configuration , analyze as adjunction in the principle and parameter variant of generative grammar , seem to require weaker version of c-command , such that the adjoin head ' inherit ' the c-command domain of the head adjoin to . it be an open question , whether there be alternative that do not - one way or the other - employ similar auxiliary device . as be well know , fgd - pattern ( nest / cross ) have consequence for the generative power of the grammar describe them . it be not properly understand , however , which device of which system capture less orderly pattern best . system use slash-category or similar technique seem to run into considerable difficulty here . feature - list integrate into a check theory of movement may be consider one of various alternative . most recently , the minimalist adoption of the " copy theory of movement " open up another array of relate issue . how , for example , do check resource get eliminate if each step lead to elimination be precede by a step of copy these resource ? are copy of np / wh - move constituent assume to retain property of empty anaphor and syntactic variable respectively , or have any reference to empty category ( e . g . ecp ) and their potential link to bind theory become undefine ? if the latter , could this change be motivate by complexity result concern the powerful device of free indexation , as employ by gb bind theory ? indeed , a general ban on the use of index have be accompany the " copy theory of movement " . this call for a demonstration how chain , the standard " legitimate lf - object " , which in alternative version of syntax be suppose to fully supplant movement , get handle without such device . primary property to be define on chain of copy , for example , would be pf - realizability as well as the distinction between operator , variable , and descriptive content status at lf ( nontrivial consequence for the analysis of qr and acd be directly imply ) . alternatively , it would be helpful to be able to appreciate how far any worked-out proposal deviate from structure-share technique as use in hpsg / lfg ( a . o . ) , index percolation device from variant of index grammar , and other structure generate system like tree adjoin grammar or categorial grammar . this workshop invite submission of papers shed light on the above question from both technical / formal and linguistic angle . abstract for both workshop be invite for 45 minute presentation ( plus 15 minute dicussion ) . they should not exceed one page / 500 word . please send five anonymous copy plus a camera ready original ( with author 's name , address , and affiliation ) to the address specify below . speaker will be partially reimburse for their expense on the scale that apply to the colloquium . glow workshop c / o matthia schlesewsky institut fuer linguistik universitt potsdam postfach 60 15 53 d 14415 potsdam germany phone : x49 - 331-977 - 2016 fax : x49 - 331-977 - 2761 e-mail : glow _ workshop @ ling . uni-potsdam . de url : http : / / www . ling . uni-potsdam . de / ik / glow . html 3 . phonetics in phonology invite speaker : edward flem , donca steriade organizer : carlo gussenhoven , ren kager the workshop be broadly concern with the relevance of articulatory and perceptual fact for phonological theory . more specifically , it intend to focus on such question as the extent to which functional factor determine phonological grammar , the status of the distinction between phonological representation and phonetic implementation , the issue of multiple ( articulation-base as well as perception-base ) phonological representation , and the universality and ` groundedness ' of phonological constraint . the workshop will consist of approximately 7 talk of 45 minute each , follow by 15 minute of discussion . abstract may not exceed one page with at least a 1 inch margin on all four side and should employ a font no smaller than 12 pt . they should be send anonymously in threefold , accompany by a camera-ready original with the author 's name , address and affiliation , to glow phonology workshop c / o . ren kager utrecht institute of linguistic / ots tran 10 3512 jk utrecht netherland phone : + 31-30 - 2538064 fax : + 31-30 - 2536000 deadline for submission of abstract : december 1 , 1998 submission by fax or e-mail will not be accept .
